Feature Topic on Rigorous and Impactful Literature Reviews
Best-Practice Recommendations
for Producers, Evaluators,
and Users of Methodological
Literature Reviews
Herman Aguinis1 , Ravi S. Ramani2 ,
and Nawaf Alabduljader3
Abstract
We categorized and content-analyzed 168 methodological literature reviews published in 42
management and applied psychology journals. First, our categorization uncovered that the majority of
published reviews (i.e., 85.10%) belong in three categories (i.e., critical, narrative, and descriptive
reviews), which points to opportunities and promising directions for additional types of methodo-
logical literature reviews in the future (e.g., meta-analytic and umbrella reviews). Second, our content
analysis uncovered implicit features of published methodological literature reviews. Based on the
results of our content analysis, we created a checklist of actionable recommendations regarding
10 components to include to enhance a methodological literature review’s thoroughness, clarity, and
ultimately, usefulness. Third, we describe choices and judgment calls in published reviews and provide
detailed explications of exemplars that illustrate how those choices and judgment calls can be made
explicit. Overall, our article offers recommendations that are useful for three methodological liter-
ature review stakeholder groups: producers (i.e., potential authors), evaluators (i.e., journal editors
and reviewers), and users (i.e., substantive researchers interested in learning about a particular
methodological issue and individuals tasked with training the next generation of scholars).
Keywords
methodological literature review, research synthesis, methodological resources, qualitative
methods, quantitative methods, transparency, recommendations, methodological improvements
1Department of Management, School of Business, The George Washington University, Washington, D.C., USA
2Department of Business Administration, Earl G. Graves School of Business and Management, Morgan State University, MD,
USA
3Department of Management and Marketing, College of Business Administration, Kuwait University, Kuwait
Corresponding Author:
Herman Aguinis, Department of Management, School of Business, The George Washington University, Funger Hall, Suite
311, 2201 G St. NW, Washington, DC 20052, USA.
Email: haguinis@gwu.edu
Organizational Research Methods
ª The Author(s) 2020
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/1094428120943281
journals.sagepub.com/home/orm
2023, Vol. 26(1) 46–\ 76


Methodological innovations are accelerating due to new software, the speed of computers, the avail-
ability of Big Data, and new sources of qualitative and quantitative data (e.g., Bamberger & Pratt,
2010; Boyd & Solarino, 2016; Cortina, Aguinis, & DeShon, 2017; LeBaron et al. 2018; Meißner &
Oll, 2019; Tonidandel et al., 2018). Together, these innovations mean that researchers need to expand
their methodological toolkits on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, given the need to learn new meth-
odological approaches and decreased resources invested in doctoral education as well as seasoned
researcher retraining and retooling (Aguinis, Cummings, et al., 2020), it is not surprising that many
journals publish literature reviews focused on methodological issues on a regular basis.
We define methodological literature reviews as articles that formally or informally review the
existing literature regarding practices about methodological issues, summarize the literature, and
provide recommendations for improved practice. These reviews offer three main contributions.
First, they help substantive researchers, including doctoral students, improve their methodological
repertoire (Wright, 2016). Second, by describing “how to do things right,” methodological literature
reviews help address the challenge of questionable research practices (QRPs; Butler et al., 2017).
That is, methodological literature reviews can be used by substantive researchers to learn how to
apply a method and also to check whether specific practices are appropriate or considered a QRP.
Similarly, journal editors and reviewers can use methodological literature reviews to identify and
attempt to minimize QRPs and the exploitation of methodological gray areas in submitted manu-
scripts (Aguinis, Banks, et al., 2020; Aguinis, Hill, & Bailey, 2020). Third, methodological literature
reviews help identify knowledge gaps and research needs, including not only methodological but
also substantive innovations resulting from improved methodology (Kunisch et al., 2018).
Despite the aforementioned contributions, there is room for improvement regarding literature
reviews due to the lack of clarity and thoroughness in describing the procedures used to conduct the
review and derive the recommendations presented therein (e.g., Adams et al., 2017; Aguinis et al.,
2018; Denyer & Tranfield, 2009; Jones & Gatrell, 2014; Kunisch et al., 2018). The pressure to publish
in elite journals (Aguinis, Cummings, et al., 2020; Bartunek, 2020) is, to some extent, the culprit for
insufficient clarity and thoroughness and the pervasiveness of QRPs in literature reviews given that
authors’ motivation to publish may in some cases supersede their motivation to be transparent and
clearly communicate judgment calls (Aguinis et al., 2018; Aguinis & Solarino, 2019; Bettis et al.,
2016; Murphy & Aguinis, 2019; Schwab & Starbuck, 2017). Given their role as authoritative “how-
to” resources, it is particularly important for methodological literature reviews to be clear about all
procedures involved in deriving and presenting recommendations. Furthermore, because financial
constraints often limit the methodological training offered to doctoral students (Aguinis et al., 2018;
Byington & Felps, 2017; Schwab & Starbuck, 2017; Wright, 2016), lack of clarity on how the review
was produced makes it harder for these future scholars to acquire the necessary declarative and
procedural knowledge1 to critically use and possibly produce different types of methodological
literature reviews. In addition, given rapid advances in methodology, some journal editors and asso-
ciate editors as well as reviewers may not be fully equipped to evaluate submitted manuscripts
describing methodological literature reviews (Cortina, Aguinis, & DeShon, 2017), which is com-
pounded by increased workloads due to the variety and quantity of manuscripts that are submitted
(Caligiuri & Thomas, 2013; Corley & Schinoff, 2017; Jones & Gatrell, 2014).
The purpose of our article is to provide recommendations on what components to include in a
methodological literature review to enhance its thoroughness, clarity, and ultimately, usefulness.
Providing recommendations about what to include in a methodological literature review and how
to present such information in a clear manner is of value for producers, evaluators, and users of
methodological literature reviews (Aguinis et al., 2018; Jones & Gatrell, 2014). Without this
information, potential authors lack sufficient guidance on how to produce such reviews, journal
editors and reviewers evaluating such efforts are left questioning the trustworthiness of submitted
47
Aguinis et al.


manuscripts, and users are unable to determine whether they can rely on the accuracy of the
recommendations offered.
Purpose and Approach
We categorized and content analyzed 168 methodological literature reviews published in 42 man-
agement and applied psychology journals. This process involved categorizing reviews into one or
more of seven types: critical review, descriptive review, meta-analytic review, narrative review,
qualitative systematic review, scoping review, and umbrella review. The content analysis involved
uncovering implicit judgment calls and choices across the reviews. In other words, we uncovered the
implicit choices authors of published methodological literature reviews have made—choices that led
to a positive outcome, which is the publication of their articles in rigorous peer-reviewed journals. By
focusing on reviews that received a “stamp of approval” from editors and reviewers after successfully
navigating the peer-review process, we derived 10 latent factors and their 40observable indicators that
are associated with what are considered successful and rigorous (because they were published)
reviews.
Our categorization and content analysis of published methodological literature reviews makes the
following contributions. First, we uncovered that the majority of published reviews (85.10%) belong
to three categories: critical, narrative, and descriptive reviews. This result shows that methodological
literature reviews are fulfilling their role in helping develop a collective understanding of knowledge
regarding an issue, highlighting inconsistencies, and outlining possible future research directions
(Kunisch et al., 2018; Par´e et al., 2015). But, we also found that few methodological literature reviews
utilized data-integration approaches such as meta-analytic or umbrella reviews. As we describe in
detail in the Discussion section, both of these review types provide unique and as of yet underutilized
opportunities for future methodological and substantive advancements.
Second, as a result of our content analysis and identification of implicit features of published
reviews, we provide a checklist of actionable recommendations on what components to include in a
methodological literature review to enhance its thoroughness, clarity, and ultimately, usefulness.
Our checklist also identifies particular features (e.g., scope of review, source of recommendations,
software guidelines) that are unique to methodological literature reviews rather than literature
reviews in general, and includes exemplars of published research that illustrate these features.
Third, our checklist can help address challenges regarding QRPs in the preparation of methodo-
logical literature reviews. Based on the performance management literature (Aguinis, 2019), research
performance problems such as a lack of transparency and QRPs are a result of insufficient (a)
knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs); or (b) motivation; or (c) both (Aguinis, Hill, & Bailey,
2020; Aguinis et al., 2018; Van Iddekinge et al., 2018). In other words, authors may engage in QRPs
or avoid disclosing sufficient information when producing methodological literature reviews either
because they lack sufficient KSAs on how to do so or because they do not wish to do so (i.e., lack of
motivation). Our checklist addresses a lack of KSAs by providing future producers (i.e., potential
authors) with declarative and procedural knowledge about what to consider, include, and disclose
when conducting a methodological literature review. Specifically, we provide future producers with
declarative knowledge on different types of methodological literature reviews and the goals addressed
by each as well as procedural knowledge on how to utilize our checklist to inform the judgment calls
and decisions made during the manuscript preparation process. Moreover, evaluators (i.e., journal
editors and reviewers) can use the declarative and procedural knowledge in our checklist to evaluate
methodological literature review submissions. The use of our checklist is also likely to influence
authors’ motivation to avoid QRPs because they know their manuscripts will be more likely to be
rejected if they do not transparently and clearly report information regarding judgment calls and
decisions made during the production of the review. In addition, evaluators can use our checklist to
48
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


provide feedback to authors on what components to include to increase transparency and reproduci-
bility, thereby further reducing QRPs (Aguinis et al., 2018). Finally users, including substantive
researchers interested in learning about a particular methodological issue and individuals tasked with
training the next generation of scholars (e.g., doctoral seminar instructors), can use the declarative and
procedural knowledge in our checklist to critically learn from—and also potentially produce—meth-
odological literature reviews.
Fourth, we refer to critical areas where judgment calls must be made explicit. For example, our
recommendations describe different approaches that can be used to: communicate the motivation for
and importance of a methodological literature review, outline the scope of the review, and suggest best
practices, which together will likely improve the chances of receiving a positive response from journal
editors and reviewers (Jones & Gatrell, 2014). We describe choices and judgment calls found in
published reviews based on our content analysis and provide detailed explications of exemplars that
illustrate how those reviews made explicit those choices and judgment calls. Next, we describe our
review.
A Literature Review of Methodological Literature Reviews
We followed a systematic and transparent six-step process as described by Aguinis et al. (2018) to
identify literature reviews focused on methodological issues. As explained in more detail below, our
process began with 100 journals, and the final list includes 168 methodological literature reviews
published in 42 management and applied psychology journals. We then used an inductive and iterative
process to identify the components included in methodological literature reviews. In the terminology
of factor analysis, we derived 40 observable indicators and 10 latent factors that make explicit the
implicit features underlying methodological literature reviews.
Step 1: Scope of Review. We conducted a critical review of the literature (Par´e et al., 2015). That is, we
examined the literature about a general issue (i.e., methodological literature reviews) to uncover
challenges and generated knowledge that can aid future research in addressing those challenges (Par´e
et al., 2015). Accordingly, as is common in conducting a critical review (Par´e et al., 2015), our process
is designed to include a broad and representative but not necessarily comprehensive set of articles.
Also, because methods evolve rapidly, we only considered reviews published more recently (i.e.,
between January 1, 1997, and July 31, 2018, including in-press articles).
In addition to being a critical review, our study also included policy-capturing methodology to
identify and make explicit implicit variability across published reviews (Aiman-Smith et al., 2002;
Karren & Barringer, 2002; Nokes & Hodgkinson, 2017). Thus, because our goal was to identify the
implicit choices authors of published methodological literature reviews have made (i.e., choices that
led to a positive outcome, which is the publication of their articles in rigorous peer-reviewed journals),
our research design purposely included published and excluded unpublished manuscripts. In other
words, we were specifically interested in making explicit the implicit features of published reviews to
make it easier for researchers to conduct and successfully publish methodological literature reviews in
the future.
Step 2: Journal Selection Procedures. Guided by Organizational Research Methods’s (ORM) mission, its
sponsorship by the Research Methods Division of the Academy of Management, and editorial state-
ments by ORM’s editors (as quoted in Aguinis et al., 2019), we included the top 50 journals as ranked
by their 2016 impact factor (made available in June 2017) from the management and applied psychol-
ogy categories of the Web of Science (WoS) Journal Citation Reports database.2 Because several of
the top 50 journals listed in the management category were also included in the applied psychology
category, we added additional journals from the latter until we reached 100 unique journals. Some of
49
Aguinis et al.


the journals included in our review fall outside the typical substantive domains of organizational
behavior and industrial-organizational psychology (e.g., International Small Business Journal). Also,
our review did not include specialized methodological journals that are not part of the management or
applied psychology WoS categories (e.g., Structural Equation Modeling, Multivariate Behavioral
Research). Nevertheless, we decided to focus on WoS management and applied psychology journals
based on ORM’s editorial policies (e.g., Bliese, 2018; Cortina, 2011; LeBreton, 2014; Vandenberg,
2008) that refer specifically to these categories, a review of the first 20 years of ORM (Aguinis et al.,
2019) that highlighted ORM’s management and applied psychology readership, and the need for us to
use objective, clear, and reproducible journal selection criteria.
Step 3: Article Selection Procedures. We used a three-step process to identify methodological literature
reviews, which are articles that formally or informally review the existing literature regarding prac-
tices about methodological issues, summarize the literature, and provide recommendations for
improved practice. In the first step, we searched the full text of articles published in each of the
100 journals using the following seven keywords: best, review, recommendation, suggestion, prac-
tice, systematic, and improve. Before beginning the search, Ravi S. Ramani and Nawaf Alabduljader
(hereafter coders) conducted a calibration check to independently examine articles published in ORM
during a 5-year span (2013-2017). The coders compared the independentlists of articles using a simple
matching function in Excel and found a 93% overlap in the article lists. The coders met to resolve the
few discrepancies. The coders then repeated this process for a different journal (i.e., Journal of
Management) and a different 5-year span (2008-2012). Results showed that this time there was
97% overlap across the two lists. Following this second calibration, each coder independently
searched articles from 50 unique journals (25 management, 25 applied psychology). During this first
step of coding, for each article identified using the keywords as search terms for the full text of articles,
the coders read the title, abstract, and in some instances, the full text of the article before classifying it
as “included” or “excluded.”3 The coders erred in the direction of including an article that may not
have met our definition of methodological literature reviews rather than excluding an article that did.
This allowed them to cast a wide net in terms of inclusivity and then collaboratively eliminate
irrelevant articles rather than missing potentially relevant ones. This first step of the article selection
process resulted in a total of 255 possibly relevant articles published in 53 journals.
In the second step, the coders used a manual search process to examine the 500 most cited articles
published between January 1997 and July 2018, as listed in the WoS management and applied
psychology categories. We implemented this additional step to ensure that we did not overlook any
highly cited methodological literature reviews that were published in journals not included on our
initial list or remained undetected based on our keyword search of the full text of the articles.
Following the previously described procedure, the coders identified 56 articles that met our inclusion
criteria. Of these, 27 were already included on our list. However, we found 29 additional articles. Only
one of these 29 articles was published in a journal (i.e., Human Relations) that was not part of the
original 100 journals we examined. Thus, at the end of this second step, our review included 284
articles published in 54 journals.
In our third and final step, the coders independently classified each of the 284 articles as meeting
our definition of methodological literature reviews, and they agreed on 96% of their classifications.
Disagreements were resolved through mutual discussion. At the end of this coding process, we found
that 116 of the 284 initially identified articles did not pertain to methodological literature reviews.
Thus, the final number of articles included in our review is 168, which were published in 42 journals.4
In the interest of full disclosure and transparency, the list of journals included in our literature review
and the number of articles drawn from each is listed in the Supplemental Material available in the
online version of the journal (Appendix A). Also, the Supplemental Material available in the online
50
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


version of the journal lists the 168 articles included in our review (Appendix B) and the 116 articles
that we considered initially but eventually excluded (Appendix C).5
Finally, an additional consideration in our article selection procedure is that, as mentioned earlier,
our article is a critical review of reviews. In keeping with this approach to literature reviews (Par´e
et al., 2015), we did not weigh the articles selected by, for example, the number of citations received
by each.6
Step 4: Categorization of Methodological Literature Reviews. Next, to gain an understanding of the state
of methodological literature reviews in management and applied psychology, we categorized the
168 articles by adapting the taxonomy of literature reviews by Par´e et al. (2015). This is an
inductively derived taxonomy based on the framework by Tranfield et al. (2003) that has been
used to categorize reviews in several fields, including “health sciences, nursing, education, library
and information sciences, management, software engineering, and information systems” (Par´e
et al., 2015, p. 184). Because we focus specifically on methodological literature reviews, we
omitted two categories (i.e., theoretical and realist reviews) that do not pertain directly to these
types of reviews.
The coders each read the full text and independently categorized the articles as belonging in one or
more of seven review types: critical review, descriptive review, meta-analytic review, narrative
review, qualitative systematic review, scoping review, and umbrella review (Par´e et al., 2015). We
compared the coding using a simple matching function in Excel, and there was 97% agreement
regarding the categorizations. Results summarized in Table 1 show that the most common types of
methodological literature reviews are critical (39.90%, 83) and narrative (23.56%, 49). Other review
types include descriptive (21.63%, 45), qualitative systematic (8.17%, 17), scoping (3.85%, 8), meta-
analytic (2.40%, 5), and umbrella (0.48%, 1).7
Step 5: Creation of Content Analysis Taxonomy.
Overview of Process Used to Develop Content Analysis Taxonomy. Given a lack of guidance
about literature reviews in general (Kunisch et al., 2018), and especially methodological literature
reviews (Paul & Criado, 2020), we began with an exploratory qualitative approach to analyze the
components of methodological literature reviews. That is, we followed an inductive and iterative
process to identify the specific features to be coded for each review. This approach, in which
discoveries from the data are repeatedly compared to and integrated into an emergent model, is
useful for knowledge generation when examining novel or relatively less well-understood phenom-
ena (Gersick et al., 2000; Locke, 2001).
To minimize rater bias effects and increase transparency and reliability, we developed our
coding scheme following the eight-step procedure described by Weber (1990) and recommended
by Duriau et al. (2007).8 First, we developed first-cycle codes using a combination of descriptive
and magnitude coding following best-practice recommendations provided by Aguinis and Solar-
ino (2019). Specifically, because our data are drawn from a variety of sources and address many
distinct research areas and topics, we used descriptive coding in which coders attempt to capture
the essence of distinct sections of qualitative data using a few words or a short phrase (Saldana,
2013). Additionally, to provide a richer description and generate data for subsequent quantitative
analysis, we used magnitude coding, in which a subcode is added to an already coded item to note
its presence or absence (Saldana, 2013). Then, we developed second-cycle codes using pattern
coding. We adopted this approach, which involves developing a set of descriptive codes to identify
emergent concepts (Saldana, 2013), to provide a parsimonious summary of the key concepts we
identified (Aguinis & Solarino, 2019).
First-Cycle Coding. The coders independently reviewed the full text of 10 randomly selected
articles. For each article, they identified observable indicators pertaining to unique aspects of each
51
Aguinis et al.


Table 1. Categorization of 168 Methodological Literature Reviews Published in 42 Web of Science Manage-
ment and Applied Psychology Journals (January 1, 1997, through July 31, 2018, including in-press articles).
Type of
Review
Number
of Reviews
(% of Total) Description of Review Type
Exemplar Articles
Critical
83 (39.90)
Critically analyzes extant literature on a broad issue
to reveal weaknesses, contradictions, controversies,
or inconsistencies. Does not necessarily compare
the covered works to one another. Holds each work
up against a criterion and finds it more or less
acceptable.
Antonakis et al. (2010),
Podsakoff et al. (2003)
Narrative
49 (23.56)
Identifies what has been written on an issue without
attempting to seek generalization or cumulative
knowledge from what is reviewed. Does not involve
a systematic and comprehensive search of all of
the relevant literature. Surveys only literature and
evidence that are readily available. Usually does not
provide any explanations of how the review process
was conducted.
Gioia et al. (2013),
Schriesheim et al. (2001)
Descriptive
45 (21.63)
Determines extent to which empirical studies in a specific
research area support or reveal any interpretable
patterns or trends with respect to preexisting
propositions, theories, methodologies, or findings.
Collects, codifies, and analyzes numeric data that
reflect the frequency of the issues, authors,
or methods found in the extant literature.
Aytug et al. (2012),
Hlady-Rispal and
Jouison-Laffitte (2014)
Qualitative
systematic
17 (8.17)
Searches, identifies, selects, appraises, and abstracts data
from quantitative empirical studies to answer the
following questions: Direction of effect? Size of effect?
Is effect consistent? Strength of evidence of effect?
Unlike meta-analysis, uses narrative and more
subjective (rather than statistical) methods to
summarize the findings of the included studies.
Defining element is the use of textual approach
for analysis and synthesis.
Doty and Glick (1998),
Mathieu et al. (2012)
Scoping
8 (3.85)
Provides initial indication of the potential size and nature
of the available literature on a particular issue.
Examines the extent, range, and nature of research;
determines the value of undertaking a full systematic
review; or identifies research gaps in the extant
literature. Focuses on the breadth of coverage of
the literature rather than the depth. Goal is to be
as comprehensive as possible.
Gibson (2017), Tangpong
(2011)
Meta-analytic
5 (2.40)
Uses meta-analytic techniques and methods to aggregate
quantitative data to estimate effect sizes and
understand variability about a particular
methodological technique or issue across multiple
studies.
Anseel et al. (2010), Bernerth
et al. (2018)
Umbrella
1 (0.48)
Integrates relevant evidence from multiple reviews to
address a usually narrow methodology-related
research question. A “review of reviews.” Can be
qualitative or quantitative.
Aguinis et al. (2018), Salleh
et al. (2017)a
Note: Because some reviews were categorized into more than one type, the total number of categorized reviews is 208 (as
opposed to the number of published reviews analyzed, 168). Categorization based on adapted version of the taxonomy by
Par´e et al. (2015). The Supplemental Material available in the online version of the journal includes the list of journals included
in our literature review and the number of articles drawn from each (Appendix A), the articles included in our review
(Appendix B), and the articles that we considered initially but eventually excluded (Appendix C).
aIllustrative example only; not included in our literature review because it was published in a journal outside the scope of our
review.
52
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


review. We adopted an inclusive approach and erred in the direction of noting all the indicators that the
coders subjectively identified in the article. Indicators included, for example, whether the article
compared methodological practices from different time periods or in different journals, whether a
review included examples of articles from micro and macro domains, and whether the authors referred
to professional association reports or guidelines as a source of recommendations. The coders then
compared their independent lists to identify converging indicators across the reviews. When coders
noted different indicators, they resolved differences by discussing them and reexamining the article.
The coders repeated this independent inductive and iterative process twice, each time with 10 ran-
domly selected articles. During the third round of first-cycle coding, the coders reached saturation
(Glaser & Strauss, 1967). That is, no additional indicators were identified. At the end of the three
rounds of first-cycle coding, the coders identified a preliminary list of 86 unique indicators based on an
examination of 30 methodological literature reviews.
Second-Cycle Coding. The coders began the second-cycle coding by incorporating input from
Herman Aguinis on the indicators. Based on our discussion, the coders each independently created
groupings of the preliminary list of 86 unique indicators. For example, indicators such as “growing
interest/use of the issue,” “implications of not addressing issue correctly,” and “importance of issue
for almost all articles” were grouped into “criticality of issue.” The coders and Herman Aguinis then
collaboratively discussed the indicators and groupings to resolve differences, evaluate the indicators
associated with each grouping, and combine indicators that were substantially similar. Using factor
analysis terminology, we identified 10 latent factors (i.e., common themes or concepts underlying
groups of observable indicators). Furthermore, for each factor, we identified between two and six
observable indicators. The 10 latent factors and their 40 observable indicators, which are listed in
Table 2, constitute the taxonomy we used to code the methodological literature reviews.
Step 6: Coding of Features of Methodological Literature Reviews. To begin, both coders read and inde-
pendently coded 10 randomly selected articles to note the presence of the 40 indicators using binary
coding (i.e., present or absent). We compared the coding of the indicators using a simple matching
function in Excel and found 98% agreement. Given the collaborative nature of the development of the
coding scheme and high intercoder agreement, the coders then randomly divided the remaining
articles. Table 2 includes the percentage of methodological literature reviews that featured each of
our 40 inductively derived indicators and the average percentage of observable indicators included for
each latent factor.
Descriptive Insights
Discussion of Categorization of Methodological Literature Reviews
We draw two implications from our results on the categorization of methodological literature reviews
summarized in Table 1. First, the majority of reviews (85.10%)9 belong in three categories: critical,
narrative, and descriptive reviews. Given the nature and goals of these three review types, this shows
that methodological literature reviews are fulfilling their role in helping develop a collective under-
standing of knowledge regarding an issue, highlighting inconsistencies, and outlining possible future
research directions (Kunisch et al., 2018; Par´e et al., 2015).
Second, we found that relatively few methodological literature reviews utilized data integration
approaches such as meta-analytic or umbrella reviews. Each of these less popular types can be
particularly useful in addressing QRPs and accordingly offer an opportunity for future methodological
literature reviews. Meta-analytic reviews apply data-integration techniques to aggregate quantitative
data to estimate effect sizes and understand variability about a particular methodological technique or
issue across multiple studies. By quantifying the effect of different methodological choices on results,
53
Aguinis et al.


Table 2. Anatomy of Published Methodological Literature Reviews: Latent Factors and Observable Indicators.
Latent Factor
Observable Indicator
% of Reviews
that Included
Observable
Indicator
Average %
of Observable
Indicators Included
for Each
Latent Factor
1. Need for review
Discussed value-added of issue
72.02
45.44
Discussed confusion regarding meaning, value,
or use of issue
36.90
Discussed misuse of issue
27.38
2. Criticality of issue
Demonstrated growing interest/use of issue
36.31
31.10
Discussed importance of issue for almost all
articles
23.21
Explained that issue was new or unfamiliar
17.86
Discussed implications of not addressing issue
correctly
47.02
3. Implications
of issue(s) reviewed
Discussed implications of issue for theory
56.55
56.79
Discussed implications of issue for design
55.95
Discussed implications of issue for measurement
55.36
Discussed implications of issue for analysis
71.43
Discussed implications of issue for discussion/
reporting
44.64
4. Scope of review
Provided a “one-stop shop” for issue
26.79
34.72
Reviewed issue within specific field(s)
55.95
Reviewed particular/narrower aspect of issue
21.43
5. Process of literature
review
Conducted a formal literature review
75.00
50.60
Conducted an informal/author-expertise
literature review
26.19
6. Source of
recommendations
Based on author expertise
49.40
41.79
Based on existing recommendations in the
literature
89.29
Based on simulations
4.76
Based on analysis of published articles or data
52.38
Based primarily on one or two papers
13.10
7. Structure of
recommendations
Structured recommendations by stage of
research project
25.00
30.19
Structured recommendations as step-by-step
guideline
16.67
Provided recommendations about what to do
in general
88.69
Provided recommendations about what to do
in different contexts
22.62
Illustrated recommendations using empirical
examples
21.43
Discussed papers that implemented best-practice
recommendations
31.55
Discussed papers that did not implement best-
practice recommendations
5.36
8. Layout of
recommendations
Presented recommendations in a separate section
45.24
30.06
Presentedrecommendationsusinganumberedlist
28.57
Presented recommendations using tables
32.74
Presented recommendations using diagrams,
models, or figures
13.69
(continued)
54
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


these reviews help researchers make informed decisions regarding the best approach about the meth-
odological technique or issue within the context of their own studies. For example, choices regarding
the inclusion or exclusion of control variables influence the relationship between the predictor and
criterion variable and inferences drawn from these results (Bernerth & Aguinis, 2016). Without
evidence about how the use of particular control variables affects relationships between constructs
of interest, researchers are more likely to make questionable choices, thereby decreasing reproduci-
bility (Aguinis et al., 2018; Banks et al., 2016). To address this issue, Bernerth et al. (2018) conduced a
meta-analytic review of the relationship between commonly used control variables and three popular
leadership perspectives (i.e., leader-member exchange, transformational leadership, and transactional
leadership). Their meta-analytic review showed how the use of those control variables reduced
degrees of freedom in statistical analyses and consequently led to inaccurate inferences. Based on
these results, the authors provided recommendations on the appropriateness of using particular control
variables in leadership research. Similarly, Anseel et al.’s (2010) meta-analytic literature review
illustrated the effect of using different response-enhancing techniques for different types of respon-
dents on empirical results and provided recommendations on the response enhancement techniques
most suited for specific sample types.
In addition, umbrella reviews address a particular question by integrating relevant evidence from
multiple reviews to address a usually narrow methodology-related research question. As such, they
constitute “reviews of reviews.” An example of a methodological literature review that adopted an
umbrella approach is Aguinis et al.’s (2018) review of methodological transparency in management
research. By synthesizing recommendations from 96 methodological literature reviews, the authors
were able to provide a “one-stop shop” on how to minimize QRPs and increase methodological
transparency.
Together, these results show that although meta-analytic and umbrella approaches to methodolo-
gical literature reviews are not currently widely utilized in the management and applied psychology
literature, they represent a promising future research direction.
Discussion of Features of Methodological Literature Reviews Based on Content Analysis
The summary included in Table 2 reveals the “anatomy” of published methodological literature
reviews, that is, the structure and internal workings of methodological literature reviews. We note
Table 2. (continued)
Latent Factor
Observable Indicator
% of Reviews
that Included
Observable
Indicator
Average %
of Observable
Indicators Included
for Each
Latent Factor
9. Readability of review Used descriptive language
79.76
59.88
Used prescriptive language
41.07
Used technical language
16.07
Used nontechnical language
83.33
Used an easy-to-follow narrative framework
79.17
10. Software guidelines Discussed software options available to
address issue
20.24
12.50
Provided statistical code
4.76
Note: Number of articles included in review ¼ 168. Percentages within each factor do not sum to 100 because some articles
included multiple indicators or did not use any of the indicators associated with a given factor.
55
Aguinis et al.


that although some of the factors and indicators we identified may be known, others may be less
familiar and obvious, particularly for researchers who have not previously produced or evaluated a
methodological literature review (i.e., junior scholars in particular). Also, we view the use of
different factors and their associated indicators across published reviews as a positive sign and
indicative of equifinality (Gresov & Drazin, 1997). Stated differently, there are different ways to
craft a methodological literature review.
To illustrate our point, consider the indicators used to justify the need for and criticality of the
methodological literature review (i.e., latent factors 1 and 2 in Table 2). We found that some articles
cited confusion about the methodological issue (about 37%), whereas others referred to misuse to
justify the need for the review (about 27%). Others did so by citing widespread interest in or use of
the particular methodology addressed in the review (about 36%). Still others used a combination of
the seven indicators from the factors “need for review” and “criticality of issue” by, for example,
mentioning that there was growing interest in the topic and also providing evidence of incorrect use
or confusion. However, each of these reviews was nevertheless successful because it was able to
achieve the same positive outcome (i.e., they received a stamp of approval from journal editors and
reviewers after successfully navigating the peer-review process).10
In other words, results summarized in Table 2 show that although certain factors and indicators are
more commonly used across methodological literature reviews, contrary to the idea of a single set of
best practices, different reviews have used different approaches to achieve the same positive publi-
cation outcome. Next, we offer a more detailed discussion of results and implications of the features
we identified in the published reviews in the form of best-practice recommendations and a checklist.
Prescriptive Insights: Best-Practice Recommendations and Checklist
A summary of our recommendations is presented in Table 3 in the form of a checklist. The checklist
organizes the latent factors and indicators we identified around the following four broad issues: (1)
How can the motivation for and importance of a methodological literature review be justified? (2)
What strategies can be used to inform data selection decisions regarding the scope of a review? (3)
How can the transparency and replicability of the process used to identify included articles and
recommendations be enhanced? and (4) What features can be used to report results and improve the
reliability and usability of a review’s recommendations? This checklist provides authors with declara-
tive and procedural knowledge about what to consider, include, and disclose when producing a
methodological literature review. Future producers of methodological literature reviews can proceed
sequentially through these four broad issues using the associated indicators, as appropriate. Producers
of future reviews can also reference the exemplars included in Table 3 for more information on how to
implement the features included in our checklist. Evaluators (i.e., journal editors and reviewers) can
use the declarative and procedural knowledge in the checklist to evaluate submitted manuscripts and
provide developmental feedback to potential authors on what components to include to increase
transparency and reproducibility, thereby reducing QRPs (Aguinis, Hill, & Bailey, 2020). Finally,
users (i.e., including substantive researchers who do not self-identify as methodologists as well as
doctoral student educators) can utilize the declarative and procedural knowledge in our checklist to
critically learn from and instruct students about methodological literature reviews.
We make an important clarification regarding the exemplars in Table 3. One of our goals is to distill
the features of published reviews to make them explicit and therefore facilitate the production of
reviews in the future. Accordingly, we focused on identifying what components to include in a
methodological literature review to improve its thoroughness, clarity, and ultimately, usefulness.
Furthermore, in keeping with our critical review approach, we did not assess the quality of the articles
selected or the efficacy with which a particular component was utilized. Instead, we applied our
inductively developed coding scheme to identify the presence or absence of these components.
56
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Table 3. Broad Issues, Latent Factors, and Observable Indicators to Enhance Thoroughness, Clarity, and
Usefulness of Methodological Literature Reviews: Checklist for Producers, Evaluators, and Users.
Broad Issue
Latent Factor to
Include in Review to
Address Broad Issue
Observable Indicators
for Each Latent Factor
Exemplar Methodological Litera-
ture Reviews Illustrating Inclusion
of Latent Factor
Does the review . . .
Motivation and
importance
1. Need for review:
Requirement for
methodological
literature review
of the issue(s)
1.1 Outline potential contributions of
the methodological issue for
substantive research?
1.2 Provide evidence of prior
confusion about methodological
issue?
1.3 Demonstrate that researchers are
incorrectly applying the
methodology?
Antonakis et al. (2010), Bernerth
and Aguinis (2016), Simmering
et al. (2015)
2. Criticality of issue:
Importance of the
methodological
issue(s)
2.1 Provide evidence of growing
interest or use of methodological
issue?
2.2 Show that the issue is of
importance for many (most)
studies in the field?
2.3 Demonstrate that the issue is new
or unfamiliar to most researchers?
2.4 Discuss the dangers of adopting
incorrect approaches for
knowledge generation and
practice?
Anseel et al. (2010), Aytug et al.
(2012), Christianson (2018),
Gonzalez-Mul´e and Aguinis
(2018), Par´e et al. (2015),
Podsakoff et al. (2003),
Yammarino et al. (2005)
3. Implications of
methodological
issue(s) reviewed:
Significance of
methodological
issue for different
aspects of the
research process
3.1 Explain how the methodological
issue affects typical components of
a paper (i.e., theory, design,
measurement, analysis, and
discussion/reporting)?
3.2 Discuss concerns regarding the
transparency of reporting when
describing analytical choices related
to the methodological issue?
Gioia et al. (2013), Kepes et al.
(2013), Shah and Goldstein
(2006)
Scope and data
selection
4. Scope of review:
Breadth of issue(s)
addressed in the
review
4.1 Provide a comprehensive “one-
stop-shop” treatment on the
issue?
4.2 Address the issue as manifested
within specific field(s)?
4.3 Address a particular/narrower
aspect of a larger issue?
Barney and Fisher (2016); Bunce
and Stephenson (2000);
Cortina, Green, et al. (2017);
Dionne et al. (2014); Frazier
et al. (2004); Gawronski et al.
(2008); Hlady-Rispal and
Jouison-Laffitte (2014);
Malhotra et al. (2006); Seuring
and Gold (2012); Vandenberg
and Lance (2000)
Transparency
and
replicability
5. Process of literature
review:
Transparent
reporting of
procedure used to
conduct literature
review
5.1 Transparently outline the process
used to select journals, articles,
and the time period covered by
the review?
5.2 Clearly specify the procedures
used to code articles?
Aguinis et al. (2018), Carayon
et al. (2015), Conway and
Huffcutt (2003), O’Boyle and
Williams (2011)
6. Source of
recommendations:
Transparent
reporting of
6.1 Rely on authors’ own expertise
with methodological issue(s) to
derive recommendations?
6.2 Cite published research on best-
Aguinis et al. (2005), Bobko et al.
(2007), Dlouhy and Biemann
(2015), Doty and Glick (1998),
Ellis (2010), Kepes et al. (2014),
(continued)
57
Aguinis et al.


Therefore, given that reviews have used different approaches to achieve the same positive publication
outcome, we used the criteria of transparency and clarity of communication and reporting regarding
the use of the indicators when choosing exemplars. That is, the exemplars included in Table 3 are such
because they used phrasing that makes it easier for others (e.g., other researchers, journal editors and
reviewers, instructors of research methods seminars) to recognize the presence of the indicators or
factors identified in our review. However, this does not mean that there is only one way of doing so.
Accordingly, we include multiple exemplars for each factor to illustrate different ways to provide
compelling and clear communication when explicating a particular factor.
Table 3. (continued)
Broad Issue
Latent Factor to
Include in Review to
Address Broad Issue
Observable Indicators
for Each Latent Factor
Exemplar Methodological Litera-
ture Reviews Illustrating Inclusion
of Latent Factor
procedure used to
conduct literature
review
practices as evidence for
recommendations?
6.3 Rely on simulations to derive
recommendations?
6.4 Cite seminal papers/manuals as the
source of recommendations?
Mathieu et al. (2012), Shook
et al. (2004), Williams et al.
(2010), Wood et al. (2008)
Readability and
usability
7. Structure of
recommendations:
Compositional
elements used
to present
recommendations
7.1 Organize recommendations by
stage of research process or as a
step-by-step guideline?
7.2 Outline general best-practice
recommendations when dealing
with methodological issue(s)?
7.3 Discuss context-specific best-
practice recommendations or
decisions?
7.4 Illustrate recommendations using
an empirical example?
7.5 Identify published research that
exemplifies best-practice
recommendations?
Bergh et al. (2016), Gardner et al.
(2017), Gibbert and Ruigrok
(2010), Judge and Kammeyer-
Mueller (2012), Molina-Azor´ın
and L´opez-Gamero (2016),
Mullen et al. (2009), Peng and
Lai (2012), Schlomer et al.
(2010), Schriesheim et al.
(2001), Stentz et al. (2012),
Sterner (2011), Van Iddekinge
and Ployhart (2008), Weekley
et al. (2015), Worthington and
Whittaker (2006)
8. Layout of
recommendations:
Compositional
elements used
to present
recommendations
8.1 Present recommendations in a
separate section?
8.2 Present recommendations using a
numbered list?
8.3 Summarize recommendations
using tabular formats?
8.4 Employ graphical tools to present
recommendations?
Cashen and Geiger (2004), Certo
et al. (2016), Hill et al. (2014),
Tangpong (2011), Venkatesh
et al. (2013)
9. Readability of review:
Compositional
elements used
to present
recommendations
9.1 Use simple and descriptive
language?
Carlson and Wu (2012),
Kriauciunas et al. (2011), Lance
et al. (2006), MacKenzie et al.
(2005), Martens (2005)
10. Software guidelines:
Compositional
elements used
to present
recommendations
10.1 Discuss software packages and
options available to implement
recommendations?
10.2 Provide software code toreplicate
procedures described in review?
Blevins et al. (2015), Goldfarb and
King (2016), Kruschke et al.
(2012), Rungtusanatham et al.
(2014)
Note: Latent factors and indicators derived using an inductive and iterative process to analyze 168 methodological literature
reviews in 42 unique journals in the applied psychology and management categories of Web of Science published between
January 1997 and July 2018 (including in-press articles as of July 31, 2018).
58
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Motivation and Importance
Our first broad issue and set of recommendations address how to establish the motivation for and
importance of conducting the review. We identified three factors (Table 3, latent factors 1-3): (1)
need for review, (2) criticality of issue, and (3) implications of methodological issue(s) reviewed.
We note that in general, combining multiple indicators and/or factors (e.g., need for review and
criticality of issue) constitutes a more effective motivation than using fewer of them because it
makes it easier for researchers to gain an understanding of current debates or practices regarding a
methodological issue. Furthermore, using phrasing that makes it easier to identify the indicators or
factors employed is also more effective in motivating the need for and importance of the review than
using vague phrasing that is not transparent about the use of the indicators or factors.
1. Need for Review. The need for a review can be communicated by outlining potential contributions
of the methodological issue for substantive research, providing evidence of prior confusion about the
methodological issue, and demonstrating that researchers are incorrectly applying the methodology.
An exemplar of communicating the motivation for the study is Simmering et al. (2015), which cited
articles and reviews published over a number of years to provide evidence of the confusion regarding
how to identify and select marker variables. An alternative approach is demonstrated in the review
by Antonakis et al. (2010), who justified the need for a review on establishing evidence of causality
using the indicators of incorrect application of techniques along with outlining implications for
substantive research. Antonakis et al. began by stating that the methodological issue had been
incorrectly addressed in the past and highlighted the implications of these incorrect applications
for substantive research. They then provided further evidence of the need for the review by citing
prior reviews from different fields in which researchers raised concerns about the issue.
2. Criticality of Issue. Another way to justify the motivation for and importance of the review is to
provide evidence of growing interest or use of the methodological issue, show its importance for many
(most) studies in the field, demonstrate that the issue is new or unfamiliar to most researchers, and
discuss the dangers of adopting incorrect approaches for knowledge generation and practices. An
exemplar of communicating the criticality of the issue is Par´e et al.’s (2015) review of different types
of reviews. Par´e et al. explicated the motivation for their study by demonstrating growing interest in
review articles, confusion regarding the types of reviews, and the challenges this posed for knowledge
generation. An alternative approach is demonstrated in Aytug et al.’s (2012) review of transparency of
reporting in meta-analyses. Aytug et al. identified the potential contributions of the methodological
issue for substantive research by noting that “meta-analysis have moved from being somewhat
controversial to generally being a preferred way of integrating research findings” (p. 103), and
provided evidence of growing interest and use of the methodological issue reviewed by noting that
“Evidence of the growing dependence on meta-analysis . . . comes from . . . the increase in the number
of meta-analyses published and the increase in the number of citations of meta-analyses over time”
(p. 103). Yet another exemplar that used the indicator of the topic being new or unfamiliar is Chris-
tianson’s (2018) review of the use of video recordings in organizational research. She noted that
although video recordings had been used in other fields, “this conversation has largely been absent
from our field” (p. 262). Christianson also stated that “there are likely to be a wide range of approaches
that researchers might use to collect and analyze video recordings” and that many “questions remain
about how video can help illuminate theoretical questions about organizations” (p. 262).
3. Implications of Methodological Issue(s) Reviewed. The third factor useful for justifying the motivation
for and importance of a methodological literature review is to explain how the issue affects typical
components of a paper (i.e., theory, design, measurement, analysis, and discussion/reporting; Aguinis
59
Aguinis et al.


et al., 2018) or discuss concerns regarding the transparency of reporting when describing analytical
choices related to the methodological issue. Results summarized in Table 2 showed that on average,
only about half (53.13%) of the published methodological literature reviews explicated the implica-
tions of the methodological issue for aspects of a research study other than data analysis. This finding
suggests that to justify its motivation and importance, future reviews should give greater consideration
to how the methodological issue affects all aspects of the research process—not just data analysis. An
exemplar that considers how the issue being reviewed affects all aspects of the research process is
Gioia et al.’s (2013) review of rigor in qualitative studies. These authors specified how a lack of
methodological rigor in conducting qualitative studies could impact theory (“the risk of ‘going
native’ . . . thus losing the higher-level perspective necessary for informed theorizing,” p. 19) while
outlining best practices for research design (“pay extraordinary attention to the initial interview
protocol,” p. 19), measurement (“trying to use their terms, not ours, to help us understand their lived
experience,” p. 19), analysis (“If agreements about some codings are low, we revisit the data, engage
in mutual discussions, and develop understandings for arriving at consensual interpretations,” p. 22),
and reporting (“we go to some length to explain exactly what we did in designing and executing the
study and the procedures we used to explicate our induction of categories, themes, and dimensions,”
p. 23). Another exemplar of clearly outlining implications of the methodological issue for different
aspects of the research process is Tranfield et al.’s (2003) examination of systematic literature
reviews, in which the authors discussed how ontological assumptions, research designs, data extrac-
tion, and reporting are all negatively impacted when methodological best practices are not followed.
An exemplar that used the indicator of transparency of reporting when describing analytical
choices related to the methodological issue is Kepes et al.’s (2013) review of meta-analytic reviews.
The authors noted that “the quality of the systematic review depends upon the data,” and accord-
ingly, “it is the responsibility of the meta-analyst . . . to be transparent about the process of data
extraction and analysis” (p. 124). Kepes et al. then discussed concerns regarding transparency as
applicable to choices researchers make regarding different components of a meta-analytic review,
including the title, introduction, design, statistical analysis, and reporting of results.
Overall, using the three aforementioned factors and their associated nine observable indicators
(Table 3) can help justify the motivation for and importance of the review. Authors can use these
factors to justify why their manuscript is worthy of publication while also outlining the potential
impact of their review. At the same time, journal editors and reviewers can assess the presence of
these factors and indicators to evaluate the manuscript’s potential contribution. Journal editors and
reviewers who believe that a manuscript has not been able to provide sufficient information regard-
ing this broad issue may suggest that the authors revisit the factors and indicators listed in Table 3 to
provide a stronger justification. For example, editors and reviewers can encourage authors to include
more of the indicators associated with a particular factor to increase the breadth and depth of the
manuscripts they review.
Scope and Data Selection
Our second broad issue and set of recommendations (Table 3, latent factor 4) addresses the review’s
scope and data selection decisions. Although some methodological literature reviews provide a
comprehensive one-stop-shop treatment, others address the issue as manifested within specific
field(s) or address a particular and narrower aspect of a larger issue. We note that each choice can
lead to meaningful contributions as long as the authors clearly state the boundaries regarding the
scope of their review and its implications for the topic reviewed.
4. Scope of Review. This factor defines the breadth of issue(s) addressed in the review. Therefore, it
influences and constricts subsequent decisions regarding the studies included in the review.
60
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


An exemplar that provides a comprehensive one-stop-shop treatment is Vandenberg and Lance’s
(2000) review of measurement invariance. These authors articulated their perspective beginning in
the abstract of their article and then outlined the boundaries of their review as follows: “Our review
is confined to evaluation of measurement equivalence in a confirmatory-factor analytical (CFA)
framework” (p. 5). Vandenberg and Lance also examined past recommendations and substantive
applications of the issue, discussed differences between various proposed approaches, provided an
illustration using an empirical example, and outlined a stepwise program for other researchers to
follow when conducting tests of measurement invariance.
Other reviews provided a more focused examination. But offering a more circumscribed scope is
not necessarily a disadvantage or flaw for methodological literature reviews. In fact, as opposed to
substantive literature reviews that typically aim to summarize and integrate broad fields and rely on
multiple theories (Parmigiani & King, 2019), a more focused approach may help make the metho-
dological literature review more accessible to substantive researchers seeking guidance on a specific
aspect of a broader methodological topic. An exemplar review that examined a particular or narrower
aspect of a larger methodological issue is Gawronski et al.’s (2008) article about the effects of
response interference when using implicit measures. The authors clearly specified their focus by
stating that although there were many different mechanisms that mediated the “impact of activated
associations on task performance,” their review focused only on the “particular mechanism” of
“response interference” (p. 218). Another exemplar that focused on a particular or narrower aspect
is Cortina, Green, et al.’s (2017) review of degrees of freedom in structural equation modeling (SEM),
in which the authors explicitly noted that they focused on degrees of freedom to demonstrate chal-
lenges regarding the transparency and reproducibility of research using SEM.
Another approach to outlining the scope of the review is to specify the particular fields in which
the methodological issue is examined. Some (e.g., Barney & Fisher, 2016; Bunce & Stephenson,
2000) focused on relatively broad fields (e.g., organizational research, stress), whereas others (e.g.,
Dionne et al., 2014; Hlady-Rispal & Jouison-Laffitte, 2014; Malhotra et al., 2006) focused on more
specific subfields (e.g., leadership, specific domains within entrepreneurship).
An exemplar of examining an issue within a specific field is Frazier et al.’s (2004) review on
approaches to testing moderator and mediator effects. The authors communicated the scope of their
review in the title (“Testing Moderator and Mediator Effects in Counseling Psychology Research”),
in explaining the need for the review (i.e., “confusion over the meaning of, and differences between,
these terms is evident in counseling psychology research,” p. 115), and in their selection of articles to
review (i.e., “we review research testing moderation and mediation that was published in the Journal
of Counseling Psychology during 2001,” p. 115).
Overall, clearly communicating the scope can help authors address concerns about the compre-
hensiveness of their review and highlight the specific aspects of the methodological issue that are
relevant to their effort while also clarifying the boundaries of the issues examined in their review.
A clear description of a review’s scope is also useful for journal editors and reviewers to understand
the breadth of the issues addressed and helps answer questions regarding possible shortcomings or
omissions in the scope of the review.
Transparency and Replicability
Our third broad issue addresses matters pertaining to the procedures used to conduct the review. In
other words, it is targeted at enhancing the transparency of the process used to conduct the literature
review and consequently, the trustworthiness of a review’s recommendations (Aguinis et al., 2018;
Aguinis & Solarino, 2019). Based on our content analysis, we identified two latent factors (Table 3,
latent factors 5 and 6, respectively) to address this issue: (5) process of literature review, and (6) source
of recommendations.
61
Aguinis et al.


Our results summarized in Table 2 regarding the anatomy of published methodological literature
reviews show that some authors described conducting a formal literature review, clearly reported the
method used to select journals and article inclusion and exclusion criteria, and offered a thorough
explanation of the coding process. In contrast, others provided minimal reporting on how they
reviewed papers by, for example, noting they reviewed a certain time period in certain journals but
falling short of providing information on inclusion criteria and coding procedures.
5. Process of Literature Review. Echoing concerns regarding rigor in literature reviews, Table 2 shows
that 25% of the articles did not conduct a formal literature review. To examine this result more closely,
we split our sample into two equivalent time periods by year of publication (i.e., 1997-2007 and 2008-
2018). We then analyzed the presence of this indicator in each subsample and found that the percent-
age of articles that conducted a formal literature review declined during the time period covered in our
review (i.e., 82.35% for 1997-2007 vs. 71.97% for 2008-2018). These results show that a lack of
systematic approaches and verifiable evidence-based guidance is not just a challenge for literature
reviews in general (Callahan, 2014; Denyer & Tranfield, 2009) but also extends specifically to
methodological literature reviews. Clearly, the greater the transparency in communicating how the
review was conducted, the more replicable the review and the better it is able to answer concerns about
potential selection biases (Adams et al., 2017; Briner et al., 2009; Jones & Gatrell, 2014). As Rousseau
et al. (2008) noted, “Literature reviews are often position papers, cherry-picking studies to advocate a
point of view” (p. 476). Therefore, a detailed specification of the process used to conduct the literature
review that includes, for example, the time period covered, the sources (e.g., books, journal articles,
edited volumes) examined, databases and keywords used in the search, inclusion and exclusion
criteria, and information regarding interrater agreement (as applicable) can help alleviate such
concerns.
Our content analysis also identified the need to be explicit about the type of review because this
choice guides decisions about how the literature review is conducted (as summarized in Table 1
describing seven different types of reviews). For example, qualitative systematic reviews use a
structured process by including more information on what articles were selected and how data were
analyzed to arrive at the synthesis. In contrast, narrative reviews usually do not provide any explana-
tions of how the review process was conducted and are more likely to include only literature and
evidence that are readily available to the authors. Because narrative reviews typically do not provide
details about how the review was conducted, they are less reproducible.
An exemplar that transparently outlined the process used to select journals, articles, and the time
period covered by the review and clearly specified the procedures used to code articles is Carayon
et al.’s (2015) article on mixed-methods research. The authors clearly specified how they defined the
methodological issue (i.e., “apply the four quality criteria for mixed methods research defined by
Creswell and Plano Clark [2011],” p. 293), listed the inclusion criteria (i.e., “study was included if it
met all four inclusion criteria,” p. 293), and provided a detailed narrative and graphical explanation of
the process used to search the literature, include or exclude studies, data extraction, coding, and
interrater agreement (pp. 293-294). Other exemplar articles include Conway and Huffcutt’s (2003)
review of exploratory factor analysis, and O’Boyle and Williams’s (2011) review of model fit indices
in SEM.
6. Source of Recommendations. Another important consideration is to transparently report the process
used to produce the recommendations put forth in the review. Doing so is particularly important for
methodological literature reviews because it reassures evaluators and users that the authors did not
engage in QRPs such as cherry-picking best-practice recommendations that aligned with their pre-
ferred viewpoint. Although some reviews rely on the authors’ own expertise to derive
62
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


recommendations, others cite published research on best practices as evidence. Still others rely on
simulations or cite seminal published sources as the rationale for their recommendations.
An exemplar that transparently explicated and reported the source of the recommendations is
Wood et al.’s (2008) review of studies that used mediation analysis. The authors provided a narrative
(“procedures recommended by statisticians,” p. 270) and detailed tabular (pp. 272-277) explanation of
the source of the knowledge used to critique current practices and on which they based their recom-
mendations. As another example, Williams et al. (2010) noted that their recommendations were built
on the foundation of Lindell and Whitney’s (2001) marker technique for controlling method variance.
Overall, using the two factors “process of literature review” (factor 5) and “source of
recommendations” (factor 6) and their associated observable indicators can help alleviate concerns
regarding the trustworthiness and credibility of the review as well as address concerns about the
replicability of reviews and recommendations included therein (Adams et al., 2017; Aguinis et al.,
2018;Jones&Gattrell, 2014;Kunisch etal.,2018).Thesetwo factorsare alsousefulforjournaleditors
and reviewers by helping identify potential biases that may affect recommendations. Editors and
reviewers can also use this information to provide constructive feedback to authors to ameliorate
potential QRPs. Finally, substantive researchers—including instructors of research methods—can
utilize these factors and observable indicators when evaluating which methodological literature
reviews to rely on because the use of these factors and indicators suggests that producers of the review
likely did not engage in QRPs.
Readability and Usability
Methodological literature reviews synthesize voluminous and sometimes complex and technical
material and are usually targeted at audiences who may not be experts on the particular issue.
Therefore, our fourth broad issue focuses on features that make it easier for substantive researchers
to access the declarative and procedural knowledge included in the review, improve the usability of
the review’s recommendations, and identify QRPs to avoid when addressing a particular methodo-
logical issue. Our content analysis uncovered the following four latent factors (Table 3, factors 7-10,
respectively): (7) structure of recommendations, (8) layout of recommendations, (9) readability of
review, and (10) software guidelines.
7. Structure of Recommendations. Some reviews organize recommendations by stage of research
process or as a step-by-step guideline. Others outline general best-practice recommendations when
dealing with a methodological issue or discuss context-specific best-practice recommendations or
decisions. Still others offer illustrations based on an empirical example or identify published research
that exemplifies best-practice recommendations. Using the indicators associated with this factor is
particularly important because—unlike substantive literature reviews (Parmigiani & King, 2019;
Short, 2009)—a critical role of methodological literature reviews is to ameliorate QRPs and improve
current practices regarding a specific methodological issue.
Presenting recommendations in a systematic manner that mirrors the sequential stages of a typical
research study enhances the usability of the recommendations by allowing researchers to understand
the methodological issue in the context of their own research. Also, presenting recommendations as
a sequential series of decisions or actions allows researchers to consider them one at a time, thereby
decreasing the complexity surrounding the recommendations and facilitating their use.
An exemplar that illustrated the indicator of providing recommendations based on stage of research
project is Peng and Lai’s (2012) review of the use of partial least squares (PLS). The authors provided a
comprehensive guide on how to use PLS with subsections related to the research objectives and types
of questions PLS can answer, issues related to sample size and model complexity, data requirements,
analytical considerations, and interpreting and reporting results. The authors also provided context-
63
Aguinis et al.


specific best-practice recommendations regarding decisions involved in each step. Another exemplar
is Gardner et al.’s (2017) review of methodological issues in testing interactive and quadratic relation-
ships in which the authors presented their recommendations based on different phases such as when
hypothesizing interactions, pretesting, data analysis, and examining results and transparently
hypothesizing after results are known (THARKing).
An exemplar that used a step-by-step approach to present recommendations is Schlomer et al.’s
(2010) review of missing data approaches. In addition to outlining recommendations in the body of the
article, the authors also provided an appendix that included an overview of the steps, and recommen-
dations based on the results of each step. Weekley et al.’s (2015) review of low-fidelity simulations in
situational judgment tests and Worthington and Whittaker’s (2006) review of scale development
research are additional exemplars of the use of the step-by-step approach to present recommendations.
Two other indicators related to the structure of recommendations include outlining general rec-
ommendations when addressing the methodological issue and discussing context-specific decisions
or recommendations. Providing general or nonspecific recommendations is useful because it allows
researchers to recognize key considerations and understand how they should address them. An
exemplar is Mullen et al.’s (2009) review of research methods in small business and entrepreneurship
in which the authors provided general recommendations for entrepreneurship research related to
sampling issues, construct validity, and internal and external validity.
In contrast, discussing context-specific decisions or recommendations helps researchers under-
stand possible trade-offs, allowing them to make appropriate decisions based on their study’s goals.
An exemplar is Van Iddekinge and Ployhart’s (2008) review of criterion-related validation in which
the authors provided context-specific recommendations such as comparing procedures for single
versus multiple raters, using broad versus narrow criteria, and analyzing maximum versus typical
performance. Another exemplar is Judge and Kammeyer-Mueller’s (2012) review of general versus
specific measures, in which the authors provided four general questions authors must ask themselves
to determine whether general or specific measures should be used and then offered recommenda-
tions based on the answers to those questions.
The final two indicators related to the structure of recommendations involve illustrating recom-
mendations using an empirical example and identifying published research that exemplifies the
recommendations. An exemplar that used the indicator of an illustrative empirical example is Schrie-
sheim et al.’s (2001) review of levels-of-analysis research in leadership. The authors provided a
detailed illustration using leader-member exchange (LMX) theory to demonstrate the importance
of aligning levels of theory with levels of analysis and to “illustrate how others who are not interested
in the LMX approach may still test their theories, models, and/or hypotheses for effects at different
levels of analysis” (p. 527). Another exemplar is Bergh et al.’s. (2016) review of meta-analytic
structural equation modeling (MASEM), in which the authors illustrated their recommendations by
using MASEM to examine the link between strategic leadership and firm performance.
Results of our content analysis summarized in Table 2 showed that only about 32% of reviews
identified published research that exemplified best-practice recommendations to provide evidence
that the recommendations are realistic and not just wishful thinking. An exemplar of best practices is
Molina-Azor´ın and L´opez-Gamero’s (2016) review of mixed methods in environmental manage-
ment research, in which the authors included a table listing published research that exemplified best-
practice recommendations. A second exemplar is Gibbert and Ruigrok’s (2010) review of rigor in
case studies, in which the authors extracted best practices related to ensuring rigor from exemplar
articles and provided direct quotes from the articles to illustrate their recommendations.
Finally, Table 2 also shows that an alternative approach we uncovered regarding the structure of
recommendations is to explicitly identify and critique prior research that did not adhere to the
review’s recommendations (i.e., approximately 5% of published reviews used this approach).
Although we do not recommend this approach because we believe it is more productive to highlight
64
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


good compared to bad practices, implementing this practice is a judgment call that authors of future
methodological literature reviews must make for themselves.
8. Layout of Recommendations. Our content analysis showed that reviews use a variety of approaches
to present their recommendations, including presenting recommendations in a separate section and
using numbered lists, tables, and graphical tools (i.e., diagrams, models, or figures). We found that
45.24% of the reviews presented their recommendations in a separate section and 32.74% used
tables to present their recommendations (see Table 2).
Exemplars of reviews that used indicators related to the layout of recommendations include Hill
et al.’s (2014) review of unobtrusive measurement, which presented recommendations in a separate
section; Tangpong’s (2011) review of content analysis research, which used a numbered list to present
recommendations; Cashen and Geiger’s (2004) review of statistical power, which offered recommen-
dations using a tabular format; and Venkatesh et al.’s (2013) review of mixed-methods research,
which used figures to illustrate the recommendations. Taken together, these approaches to the
review’s layout of recommendations are likely to increase the ease of with which substantive research-
ers, including doctoral students, can access the declarative and procedural knowledge included in the
review (Short, 2009).
9. Readability of Review. Readability is obviously important in all reviews but particularly so in
methodological literature reviews given their often technical nature. Exemplars of articles that
include the indicator of simple and descriptive language include Carlson and Wu’s (2012) review
of control variable usage, Kriauciunas et al.’s (2011) review of using surveys in nontraditional
contexts, Martens’s (2005) review of SEM, and MacKenzie et al.’s (2005) review of measurement
model misspecification.
10. Software Guidelines. Our content analysis uncovered that a final factor regarding the usability of a
review’s recommendations, which is particularly unique to methodological reviews and nonapplic-
able to other types of reviews, involves discussing software packages and options available to imple-
ment recommendations or providing software to replicate procedures described in the review.
However, only about 20% of the methodological literature reviews discussed software packages, and
only about 5% included software to replicate the procedures described (see Table 2). An exemplar that
discussed software packages and options is Waller and Kaplan’s (2018) review of video-based
approaches, which included a description of technological alternatives for coding video-based data.
Exemplars of articles that provided software to replicate the review’s procedures or illustrations
include Bonett and Wright’s (2014) review of Cronbach’s alpha, which provided code to calculate
recommended confidence intervals for Cronbach’s alpha using R, and Rungtusanatham et al.’s (2014)
review of mediation, which included syntax to conduct both bootstrap and Bayesian tests of mediation
using Mplus.
Opportunities for Future Methodological Reviews
Our categorization of reviews points to opportunities and promising directions for future methodo-
logical literature reviews, especially in addressing the critical challenge posed by QRPs. As our results
showed, most methodological literature reviews are aimed at deepening the field’s understanding
about a technique or issue and outlining possible future research directions. Although these contri-
butions are useful and indeed necessary, two underutilized types of methodological literature reviews,
namely, meta-analytic and umbrella reviews, hold great promise in helping alleviate QRPs. Meta-
analytic methodological literature reviews bring clarity to the literature by analyzing and distilling
knowledge from individual studies to understand how results obtained using a particular
65
Aguinis et al.


methodological issue or technique may vary. Moreover, by aggregating data to derive standardized
effect sizes, meta-analytic reviews can provide evidence on how different methodological practices
(e.g., including or excluding control variables, sample selection, HARKing) may influence results and
inferences. Therefore, they help substantive researchers choose an approach that is best aligned with
their research goals, and reviewers and editors in evaluating the appropriateness of a researcher’s
decisions and judgment calls when utilizing a particular methodological technique. In addition,
umbrella reviews bring clarity by highlighting similarities and resolving potential contradictions
across multiple reviews of the same methodological issue or technique. Such knowledge is especially
relevant given the rapid pace of methodological advancements (Cortina, Aguinis, & DeShon, 2017),
which renders once commonly accepted practices, such as summarily excluding outliers or managing
control variables (Aguinis, Hill, & Bailey, 2020; Bernerth & Aguinis, 2016), into potential QRPs.
As an example, consider Vandenberg and Lance’s (2000) review of measurement invariance. This
critical and descriptive methodological literature review is the most cited article in our sample, with
about 3,400 WoS citations (as of June 2020), and is exemplary in its use of many of the factors and
latent indicators identified in our review. As a follow-up to Vandenberg and Lance, a meta-analytic
review could examine variability about measurement invariance practices across multiple studies. For
example, a meta-analytic review that examines variability in measurement invariance practices in the
use of particular measures of LMX or different dimensions of justice (i.e., distributive, procedural,
interpersonal, and informational) could help minimize QRPs by informing researchers about the
effects of using those measures on parameter estimates. As an additional opportunity, Vandenberg
and Lance’s article was published over 20 years ago and before recent methodological advancements,
such as the use of Bayesian methods to assess measurement invariance (Kim et al., 2017), or more
recent reviews of measurement invariance (e.g., Putnick & Bornstein, 2016; Schmitt & Kuljanin,
2008). Therefore, a follow-up umbrella review could help researchers avoid QRPs by integrating
relevant evidence across multiple reviews and providing state-of-the-science recommendations. We
hope that our article will spur more researchers to adopt meta-analytic and umbrella review
approaches, thereby helping methodological literature reviews better address the challenges posed
by QRPs.
Conclusions
Methodological literature reviews summarize complex and technical information usually based on
large bodies of existing work. Also, they provide recommendations that help substantive researchers
stay abreast with rapid developments in methodology, instructors of methods in educating doctoral
students, and the entire field in terms of identifying and minimizing QRPs and the exploitation of
methodological gray areas. Our content analysis uncovered implicit features of published methodo-
logical literature reviews and made them explicit—the “anatomy” of methodological literature
reviews. Based on these features, we created a checklist of actionable recommendations on what
components to include in a methodological literature review to improve thoroughness, clarity, and
ultimately, usefulness. Furthermore, we identified features (e.g., source of recommendations, soft-
ware guidelines) that are specific and unique to methodological literature reviews and not necessarily
relevant for other types of literature reviews. Our article offers recommendations that address the
needs of three methodological literature review stakeholder groups: producers (i.e., potential authors),
evaluators (i.e., journal editors and reviewers), and users (i.e., substantive researchers interested in
learning about a particular methodological issue and individuals tasked with training the next gener-
ation of scholars). Future producers will benefit from declarative knowledge on different types of
methodological literature reviews and the goals addressed by each as well as procedural knowledge on
how to utilize our checklist to inform the judgment calls and decisions made during the manuscript
preparation process. Evaluators can use the declarative and procedural knowledge in our checklist to
66
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


evaluate methodological literature review submissions and use our checklist to provide feedback to
authors on what components to include to increase transparency and reproducibility, thereby reducing
QRPs. Users can utilize the declarative and procedural knowledge in our checklist to critically learn
from—and also potentially produce—methodological literature reviews. As methods evolve, we
encourage future research to examine whether our results are generalizable to fields beyond manage-
ment and applied psychology and to revise and update our checklist to reflect the state of the art in
terms of best practices for methodological literature reviews.
Declaration of Conflicting Interests
The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or
publication of this article.
Funding
The author(s) received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
ORCID iD
Herman Aguinis
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3485-9484
Ravi S. Ramani
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3324-3765
Nawaf Alabduljader
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5360-1622
Supplemental Material
Supplemental material for this article is available online.
Notes
1. Declarative knowledge is information about facts regarding the requirements, principles, or goals of a
particular activity, whereas procedural knowledge is information about how to accomplish those goals
(Aguinis, 2019).
2. Impact factor is the average number of citations in other WoS-ranked journals received per article pub-
lished in the focal journal during the two preceding years (i.e., 2014 and 2015 for the calculation of the
2016 impact factor).
3. Given our definition of methodological literature reviews, we did not include articles that did not review
the existing literature and whose primary aim was to provide a tutorial, offer an editorial or commentary, or
introduce a new method.
4. Examples of formal reviews included in our review are Aguinis, Gottfredson, and Joo’s (2013) review of
outliers; Clougherty et al.’s (2016) review of endogeneity due to self-selection; and Simmering et al.’s
(2015) review of marker variables and common method variance. Examples of informal reviews included
in our review are Beal’s (2015) review of experience sampling methods, Hulland’s (1999) review of partial
least squares methods, and Lohrke et al.’s (2010) review of conjoint analysis. Examples of articles that did
not meet the definition of methodological literature review include Aguinis, Gottfredson, and Culpepper’s
(2013) tutorial on estimating cross-level interaction effects using multilevel modeling; Hofmann’s (1997)
and Hofmann and Gavin’s (1998) tutorials on issues related to multilevel modeling; and Hinkin’s (1998)
article on developing items for survey questionnaires. Examples of additional articles that did not meet our
definition include Humphrey’s (2011) editorial on meta-analysis and Leenders et al.’s (2016) article
introducing relational event networks.
5. As a further check of the discriminant validity of our article selection process, we also examined every
article (N ¼ 101) published in ORM over a 3-year period (i.e., 2017-2019) (excluding editorials, correc-
tions, and calls for papers). We found that only approximately 17% (i.e., 17) of the 101 articles were
classified as methodological literature reviews, providing evidence regarding discriminant validity. The
67
Aguinis et al.


full list of ORM articles we examined and their classification is included in the Appendix D of the
Supplemental Material available in the online version of the journal.
6. Citations are a meaningful but imperfect indicator of the quality and rigor of an article (e.g., Aguinis et al.,
2014; Bluhm et al., 2011; Kacmar & Whitfield, 2000). Moreover, a recent review of ORM articles (Aguinis
et al., 2019) showed that there is only partial overlap between the 50 most frequently cited articles and those
that have won awards such as the Academy of Management’s Research Methods Division (RMD) Best
Article of the Year Award and ORM’s Article of the Year Award. Accordingly, Aguinis et al. (2019)
concluded that different stakeholders (e.g., substantive researchers, RMD elected officers, ORM editorial
board members) use different criteria when determining the quality, rigor, and impact of an article.
7. The sum is larger than 168 because some articles were categorized as belonging in more than one category.
8. A detailed description of the alignment of our coding procedures with the guidelines suggested by Weber
(1990) is included in Appendix E of the Supplemental Material available in the online version of the
journal.
9. Because some reviews were categorized into more than one type (Table 1), the total number of categorized
reviews is 208 (as opposed to the number of published reviews analyzed, 168). Consequently, 85.10% is the
sum of categorized reviews from the three categories (i.e., critical, narrative, and descriptive reviews)
divided by total number of categorized reviews (i.e., 177/208).
10. We conducted additional sensitivity and robustness analyses to examine possible differences about factors
and indicators across journals. Because ORM contributed the largest number of published reviews (i.e.,
N ¼ 40), we computed results regarding latent factors and observable indicators for the subsample of these
articles and compared them to those for the rest of the articles included in our review (N ¼ 128). Results
showed that although there were some differences in the pattern of observable indicators between articles
published in ORM versus other journals, the overall difference in terms of the latent factors was negligible,
showing that our results are generalizable across journals. Detailed results and analyses are available in
Appendix F of the Supplemental Material available in the online version of the journal.
References
Adams, R. J., Smart, P., & Huff, A. S. (2017). Shades of grey: Guidelines for working with the grey literature in
systematic reviews for management and organizational studies. International Journal of Management
Reviews, 19(4), 432-454. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12102
Aguinis, H. (2019). Performance management (4th ed.). Chicago Business Press.
Aguinis, H., Banks, G. C., Rogelberg, S., & Cascio, W. F. (2020). Actionable recommendations for narrowing
the science-practice gap in open science. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 158,
27-35. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2020.02.007
Aguinis, H., Beaty, J. C., Boik, R. J., & Pierce, C. A. (2005). Effect size and power in assessing moderating
effects of categorical variables using multiple regression: A 30-year review. Journal of Applied Psychology,
90(1), 94-107. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/0021-9010.90.1.94
Aguinis, H., Cummings, C., Ramani, R. S., & Cummings, T. G. (2020). An A is an A: The new bottom line for
valuing academic research. Academy of Management Perspectives, 34(1), 1-20. https://journals.aom.org/
doi/10.5465/amp.2017.0193
Aguinis, H., Gottfredson, R. K., & Culpepper, S. A. (2013). Best-practice recommendations for estimating
cross-level interaction effects using multilevel modeling. Journal of Management, 39(6), 1490-1528. https://
doi.org/10.1177/0149206313478188
Aguinis, H., Gottfredson, R. K., & Joo, H. (2013). Best-practice recommendations for defining, identifying,
and handling outliers. Organizational Research Methods, 16(2), 270-301. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428112470848
Aguinis, H., Hill, N. S., & Bailey, J. R. (2020). Best practices in data collection and preparation:
Recommendations for reviewers, editors, and authors. Organizational Research Methods. Advance online
publication. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428119836485
68
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Aguinis, H., Ramani, R. S., & Alabduljader, N. (2018). What you see is what you get? Enhancing methodo-
logical transparency in management research. Academy of Management Annals, 12(1), 83-110. https://doi.
org/10.5465/annals.2016.0011
Aguinis, H., Ramani, R. S., & Villamor, I. (2019). The first 20 years of Organizational Research Methods:
Trajectory, impact, and predictions for the future. Organizational Research Methods, 22(2), 463-489.
https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2016.0011
Aguinis, H., Shapiro, D. L., Antonacopoulou, E. P., & Cummings, T. G. (2014). Scholarly impact: A pluralist
conceptualization. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 13(4), 623-639. https://doi.org/10
.5465/amle.2014.0121
Aguinis, H., & Solarino, A. M. (2019). Transparency and replicability in qualitative research: The case of
interviews with elite informants. Strategic Management Journal, 40(8), 1291-1315. https://doi.org/10.1002/
smj.3015
Aiman-Smith, L., Scullen, S. E., & Barr, S. H. (2002). Conducting studies of decision making in organizational
contexts: A tutorial for policy-capturing and other regression-based techniques. Organizational Research
Methods, 5(4), 388-414. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442802237117
Anseel, F., Lievens, F., Schollaert, E., & Choragwicka, B. (2010). Response rates in organizational science,
1995–2008: A meta-analytic review and guidelines for survey researchers. Journal of Business and
Psychology, 25(3), 335-349. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-010-9157-6
Antonakis, J., Bendahan, S., Jacquart, P., & Lalive, R. (2010). On making causal claims: A review and
recommendations. The Leadership Quarterly, 21(6), 1086-1120. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2010.
10.010
Aytug, Z. G., Rothstein, H. R., Zhou, W., & Kern, M. C. (2012). Revealed or concealed? Transparency of
procedures, decisions, and judgment calls in meta-analyses. Organizational Research Methods, 15(1),
103-133. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428111403495
Bamberger, P. A., & Pratt, M. G. (2010). From the editors: Moving forward by looking back: Reclaiming
unconventional research contexts and samples in organizational scholarship. Academy of Management
Journal, 53(4), 665-671. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2010.52814357
Banks, G. C., O’Boyle Jr., E. H., Pollack, J. M., White, C. D., Batchelor, J. H., Whelpley, C. E., Abston, K. A.,
Bennett, A. A., & Adkins, C. L. (2016). Questions about questionable research practices in the field of
management: A guest commentary. Journal of Management, 42(1), 5-20. https://doi.org/10.1177/01492063
15619011
Barney, M., & Fisher, W. P., Jr. (2016). Adaptive measurement and assessment. Annual Review of
Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 3, 469-490. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-orgp
sych-041015-062329
Bartunek, J. M. (2020). What do, what did, and what should we do about “A”s? Academy of Management
Perspectives, 34(1), 164-169. https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2019.0115
Beal, D. J. (2015). ESM 2.0: State of the art and future potential of experience sampling methods in organiza-
tional research. Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 2, 383-407.
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-orgpsych-032414-111335
Bergh, D. D., Aguinis, H., Heavey, C., Ketchen, D. J., Boyd, B. K., Su, P., Lau, C. L. L., & Joo, H. (2016).
Using meta-analytic structural equation modeling to advance strategic management research: Guidelines
and an empirical illustration via the strategic leadership-performance relationship. Strategic Management
Journal, 37(3), 477-497. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.2338
Bernerth, J. B., & Aguinis, H. (2016). A critical review and best-practice recommendations for control variable
usage. Personnel Psychology, 69(1), 229-283. https://doi.org/10.1111/peps.12103
Bernerth, J. B., Cole, M. S., Taylor, E. C., & Walker, H. J. (2018). Control variables in leadership research: A
qualitative and quantitative review. Journal of Management, 44(1), 131-160. https://doi.org/10.1177/
0149206317690586
69
Aguinis et al.


Bettis, R. A., Ethiraj, S., Gambardella, A., Helfat, C., & Mitchell, W. (2016). Creating repeatable cumulative
knowledge in strategic management: A call for a broad and deep conversation among authors, referees, and
editors. Strategic Management Journal, 37(2), 257-261. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.2477
Blevins, D. P., Tsang, E. K., & Spain, S. M. (2015). Count-based research in management: Suggestions for
improvement. Organizational Research Methods, 18(1), 47-69. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428114549601
Bliese, P. D. (2018). Editorial. Organizational Research Methods, 21(1), 3-5. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428117744910
Bluhm, D. J., Harman, W., Lee, T. W., & Mitchell, T. R. (2011). Qualitative research in management: A decade
of progress. Journal of Management Studies, 48(8), 1866-1891. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.2010
.00972.x
Bobko, P., Roth, P. L., & Buster, M. A. (2007). The usefulness of unit weights in creating composite scores: A
literature review, application to content validity, and meta-analysis. Organizational Research Methods,
10(4), 689-709. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428106294734
Bonett, D. G., & Wright, T. A. (2014). Cronbach’s alpha reliability: Interval estimation, hypothesis testing, and
sample size planning. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 36(1), 3-15. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.1960
Boyd, B. K., & Solarino, A. M. (2016). Ownership of corporations: A review, synthesis, and research agenda.
Journal of Management, 42(5), 1282-1314. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206316633746
Briner, R. B., Denyer, D., & Rousseau, D. M. (2009). Evidence-based management: Concept cleanup time?
Academy of Management Perspectives, 23(4), 19-32. https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.23.4.19
Bunce, D., & Stephenson, K. (2000). Statistical considerations in the interpretation of research on occupational
stress management interventions. Work & Stress, 14(3), 197-212. https://doi.org/10.1080/026783700
10016126
Butler, N., Delaney, H., & Spoelstra, S. (2017). The gray zone: Questionable research practices in the business
school. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 16(1), 94-109. https://doi.org/10.5465/amle.2015
.0201
Byington, E. K., & Felps, W. (2017). Solutions to the credibility crisis in management science. Academy of
Management Learning & Education, 16(1), 142-162. https://doi.org/10.5465/amle.2015.0201
Caligiuri, P., & Thomas, D. C. (2013). From the Editors: How to write a high-quality review. Journal of
International Business Studies, 44(6), 547-553. https://doi.org/10.1057/jibs.2013.24
Callahan, J. L. (2014). Writing literature reviews: A reprise and update. Human Resource Development Review,
13(3), 271-275. https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484314536705
Carayon, P., Kianfar, S., Li, Y., Xie, A., Alyousef, B., & Wooldridge, A. (2015). A systematic review of mixed
methods research on human factors and ergonomics in health care. Applied Ergonomics, 51, 291-321.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apergo.2015.06.001
Carlson, K. D., & Wu, J. (2012). The illusion of statistical control: Control variable practice in manage-
ment research. Organizational Research Methods, 15(3), 413-435. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428111
428817
Cashen, L. H., & Geiger, S. W. (2004). Statistical power and the testing of null hypotheses: A review of
contemporary management research and recommendations for future studies. Organizational Research
Methods, 7(2), 151-167. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428104263676
Certo, S. T., Busenbark, J. R., Woo, H., & Semadeni, M. (2016). Sample selection bias and Heckman models in
strategic management research. Strategic Management Journal, 37(13), 2639-2657. https://doi.org/10.1002/
smj.2475
Christianson, M. K. (2018). Mapping the terrain: The use of video-based research in top-tier organizational
journals. Organizational Research Methods, 21(2), 261-287. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428116663636
Clougherty, J. A., Duso, T., & Muck, J. (2016). Correcting for self-selection based endogeneity in manage-
ment research. Organizational Research Methods, 19(2), 286-347. https://doi.org/10.1177/10944281156
19013
70
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Conway, J. M., & Huffcutt, A. I. (2003). A review and evaluation of exploratory factor analysis practices in
organizational research. Organizational Research Methods, 6(2), 147-168. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428103251541
Corley, K. G., & Schinoff, B. S. (2017). Who, me? An inductive study of novice experts in the context of how
editors come to understand theoretical contribution. Academy of Management Perspectives, 31(1), 4-27.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2015.0131
Cortina, J. M. (2011). Editorial. Organizational Research Methods, 14(1), 6-9. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428110386010
Cortina, J. M., Aguinis, H., & DeShon, R. P. (2017). Twilight of dawn or of evening? A century of research
methods in the Journal of Applied Psychology. Journal of Applied Psychology, 102(3), 274-290. https://
psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/apl0000163
Cortina, J. M., Green, J. P., Keeler, K. R., & Vandenberg, R. J. (2017). Degrees of freedom in SEM: Are we
testing the models that we claim to test? Organizational Research Methods, 20(3), 350-378. https://doi.org/
10.1177/1094428116676345
Creswell, J. W., & Plano Clark, V. L. (2011). Designing and conducting mixed methods research (2nd ed). Sage
Publications.
Denyer, D., & Tranfield, D. (2009). Producing a systematic review. In D. Buchanan & A. Bryman (Eds.), The
Sage handbook of organizational research methods (pp. 671-689). Sage.
Dionne, S. D., Gupta, A., Sotak, K. L., Shirreffs, K. A., Serban, A., Hao, C., Kim, D.H., & Yammarino, F. J.
(2014). A 25-year perspective on levels of analysis in leadership research. The Leadership Quarterly, 25(1),
6-35. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2013.11.002
Dlouhy, K., & Biemann, T. (2015). Optimal matching analysis in career research: A review and some best-
practice recommendations. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 90, 163-173. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb
.2015.04.005
Doty, D. H., & Glick, W. H. (1998). Common methods bias: Does common methods variance really bias
results?. Organizational Research Methods, 1(4), 374-406. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442819814002
Duriau, V. J., Reger, R. K., & Pfarrer, M. D. (2007). A content analysis of the content analysis literature in
organization studies. Organizational Research Methods, 10(1), 5-34. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094
428106289252
Ellis, P. D. (2010). Effect sizes and the interpretation of research results in international business. Journal of
International Business Studies, 41(9), 1581-1588. https://doi.org/10.1057/jibs.2010.39
Frazier, P. A., Tix, A. P., & Barron, K. E. (2004). Testing moderator and mediator effects in counseling
psychology research. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 51(1), 115-134. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/
10.1037/0022-0167.51.1.115
Gardner, R. G., Harris, T. B., Ning, L., Kirkman, B. L., & Mathieu, J. E. (2017). Understanding “It depends” in
organizational research: A theory-based taxonomy, review, and future research agenda concerning interac-
tive and quadratic relationships. Organizational Research Methods, 20(4), 610-638. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428117708856
Gawronski, B., Deutsch, R., LeBel, E. P., & Peters, K. R. (2008). Response interference as a mechanism
underlying implicit measures: Some traps and gaps in the assessment of mental associations with experi-
mental paradigms. European Journal of Psychological Assessment, 24(4), 218-225. https://psycnet.apa.org/
doi/10.1027/1015-5759.24.4.218
Gersick, C. J., Dutton, J. E., & Bartunek, J. M. (2000). Learning from academia: The importance of relation-
ships in professional life. Academy of Management Journal, 43(6), 1026-1044. https://doi.org/10.5465/
1556333
Gibbert, M., & Ruigrok, W. (2010). The “what” and “how” of case study rigor: Three strategies based on
published work. Organizational Research Methods, 13(4), 710-737. https://doi.org/10.1177/10944281093
51319
71
Aguinis et al.


Gibson, C. B. (2017). Elaboration, generalization, triangulation, and interpretation: On enhancing the value of
mixed method research. Organizational Research Methods, 20(2), 193-223. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428116639133
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013). Seeking qualitative rigor in inductive research: Notes on
the Gioia methodology. Organizational Research Methods, 16(1), 15-31. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428112452151
Glaser, B. S., & Strauss, A. L. (1967). The discovery of grounded theory. Aldine.
Goldfarb, B., & King, A. A. (2016). Scientific apophenia in strategic management research: Significance tests
& mistaken inference. Strategic Management Journal, 37(1), 167-176. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.2459
Gonzalez-Mul´e, E., & Aguinis, H. (2018). Advancing theory by assessing boundary conditions with meta-
regression: A critical review and best-practice recommendations. Journal of Management, 44(6),
2246-2273. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206317710723
Gresov, C., & Drazin, R. (1997). Equifinality: Functional equivalence in organization design. Academy of
Management Review, 22(2), 403-428. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1997.9707154064
Hill, A. D., White, M. A., & Wallace, J. C. (2014). Unobtrusive measurement of psychological constructs in
organizational research. Organizational Psychology Review, 4(2), 148-174. https://doi.org/10.1177/20413
86613505613
Hinkin, T. R. (1998). A brief tutorial on the development of measures for use in survey questionnaires.
Organizational Research Methods, 1(1), 104-121. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442819800100106
Hlady-Rispal, M., & Jouison-Laffitte, E. (2014). Qualitative research methods and epistemological frameworks:
A review of publication trends in entrepreneurship. Journal of Small Business Management, 52(4), 594-614.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jsbm.12123
Hofmann, D. A. (1997). An overview of the logic and rationale of hierarchical linear models. Journal of
Management, 23(6), 723-744. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-2063(97)90026-X
Hofmann, D. A., & Gavin, M. B. (1998). Centering decisions in hierarchical linear models: Implications for
research in organizations. Journal of Management, 24(5), 623-641. https://doi.org/10.1177/01492063
9802400504
Hulland, J. (1999). Use of partial least squares (PLS) in strategic management research: A review of four recent
studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20(2), 195-204. https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0266
(199902)20:2%3C195::AID-SMJ13%3E3.0.CO;2-7
Humphrey, S. E. (2011). What does a great meta-analysis look like? Organizational Psychology Review, 1(2),
99-103. https://doi.org/10.1177/2041386611401273
Jones, O., & Gatrell, C. (2014). The future of writing and reviewing for IJMR. International Journal of
Management Reviews, 16(3), 249-264. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12038
Judge, T. A., & Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D. (2012). General and specific measures in organizational behavior
research: Considerations, examples, and recommendations for researchers. Journal of Organizational
Behavior, 33(2), 161-174. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.764
Kacmar, K. M., & Whitfield, J. M. (2000). An additional rating method for journal articles in the field of
management. Organizational Research Methods, 3(4), 392-406. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442810034005
Karren, R. J., & Barringer, M. W. (2002). A review and analysis of the policy-capturing methodology in
organizational research: Guidelines for research and practice. Organizational Research Methods, 5(4),
337-361. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442802237115
Kepes, S., Banks, G. C., & Oh, I. S. (2014). Avoiding bias in publication bias research: The value of
“null” findings. Journal of Business and Psychology, 29(2), 183-203. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-012-
9279-0
Kepes, S., McDaniel, M. A., Brannick, M. T., & Banks, G. C. (2013). Meta-analytic reviews in the organiza-
tional sciences: Two meta-analytic schools on the way to MARS (the Meta-Analytic Reporting Standards).
Journal of Business and Psychology, 28(2), 123-143. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-012-9279-0
72
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Kim, E. S., Cao, C., Wang, Y., & Nguyen, D. T. (2017). Measurement invariance testing with many groups: A
comparison of five approaches. Structural Equation Modeling, 24(4), 524-544. https://doi.org/10.1080/
10705511.2017.1304822
Kriauciunas, A., Parmigiani, A., & Rivera-Santos, M. (2011). Leaving our comfort zone: Integrating estab-
lished practices with unique adaptations to conduct survey-based strategy research in nontraditional con-
texts. Strategic Management Journal, 32(9), 994-1010. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.921
Kruschke, J. K., Aguinis, H., & Joo, H. (2012). The time has come: Bayesian methods for data analysis in the
organizational sciences. Organizational Research Methods, 15(4), 722-752. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428112457829
Kunisch, S., Menz, M., Bartunek, J. M., Cardinal, L. B., & Denyer, D. (2018). Feature topic at Organizational
Research Methods: How to conduct rigorous and impactful literature reviews? Organizational Research
Methods, 21(3), 519-523. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428118770750
Lance, C. E., Butts, M. M., & Michels, L. C. (2006). The sources of four commonly reported cutoff criteria:
What did they really say? Organizational Research Methods, 9(2), 202-220. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428105284919
LeBaron, C., Jarzabkowski, P., Pratt, M. G., & Fetzer, G. (2018). An introduction to video methods in
organizational research. Organizational Research Methods, 21(2), 239-260. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428117745649
LeBreton, J. M. (2014). Editorial. Organizational Research Methods, 17(2), 113-117. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428114527416
Leenders, R. T. A., Contractor, N. S., & DeChurch, L. A. (2016). Once upon a time: Understanding team
processes as relational event networks. Organizational Psychology Review, 6(1), 92-115. https://doi.org/
10.1177/2041386615578312
Lindell, M. K., & Whitney, D. J. (2001). Accounting for common method variance in cross-sectional research
designs. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(1), 114-121. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.86.1.114
Locke, K. (2001). Grounded theory in management research. Sage.
Lohrke, F. T., Holloway, B. B., & Woolley, T. W. (2010). Conjoint analysis in entrepreneurship research: A
review and research agenda. Organizational Research Methods, 13(1), 16-30. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428109341992
MacKenzie, S. B., Podsakoff, P. M., & Jarvis, C. B. (2005). The problem of measurement model misspecifica-
tion in behavioral and organizational research and some recommended solutions. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 90(4), 710-730. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/0021-9010.90.4.710
Malhotra, N. K., Kim, S. S., & Patil, A. (2006). Common method variance in IS research: A comparison of
alternative approaches and a reanalysis of past research. Management Science, 52(12), 1865-1883. https://
doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.1060.0597
Martens, M. P. (2005). The use of structural equation modeling in counseling psychology research. The
Counseling Psychologist, 33(3), 269-298. https://doi.org/10.1177/0011000004272260
Mathieu, J. E., Aguinis, H., Culpepper, S. A., & Chen, G. (2012). Understanding and estimating the power to
detect cross-level interaction effects in multilevel modeling. Journal of Applied Psychology, 97(5), 951-966.
https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/a0028380
Meißner, M., & Oll, J. (2019). The promise of eye-tracking methodology in organizational research: A tax-
onomy, review, and future avenues. Organizational Research Methods, 22(2), 590-617. https://doi.org/
10.1177/1094428117744882
Molina-Azor´ın, J. F., & L´opez-Gamero, M. D. (2016). Mixed methods studies in environmental management
research: prevalence, purposes and designs. Business Strategy and the Environment, 25(2), 134-148. https://
doi.org/10.1002/bse.1862
Mullen, M. R., Budeva, D. G., & Doney, P. M. (2009). Research methods in the leading small business–
entrepreneurship journals: A critical review with recommendations for future research. Journal of Small
Business Management, 47(3), 287-307. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-627X.2009.00272.x
73
Aguinis et al.


Murphy, K. R., & Aguinis, H. (2019). HARKing: How badly can cherry picking and question trolling produce
bias in published results? Journal of Business and Psychology, 34(1), 1-17. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869
-017-9524-7
Nokes, K., & Hodgkinson, G. P. (2017). Policy-capturing: An ingenious technique for exploring the cognitive
bases of work-related decisions. In R. J. Galavan, K. J. Sund, & G. P. Hodgkinson (Eds.), Methodological
challenges and advances in managerial and organizational cognition (pp. 95-121). Emerald Publishing
Limited.
O’Boyle, E. H., Jr., & Williams, L. J. (2011). Decomposing model fit: Measurement vs. theory in organizational
research using latent variables. Journal of Applied Psychology, 96(1), 1-12. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/
10.1037/a0020539
Par´e,G.,Trudel,M.C.,Jaana,M.,&Kitsiou,S.(2015).Synthesizinginformationsystemsknowledge:Atypology
of literature reviews. Information & Management, 52(2), 183-199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2014.08.008
Parmigiani, A., & King, E. (2019). Successfully proposing and composing review papers. Journal of
Management, 45(8), 3083-3090. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206319874875
Paul, J., & Criado, A. R. (2020). The art of writing literature review: What do we know and what do we need to
know? International Business Review, 29(4), 101717. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibusrev.2020.101717
Peng, D. X., & Lai, F. (2012). Using partial least squares in operations management research: A practical
guideline and summary of past research. Journal of Operations Management, 30(6), 467-480. https://doi
.org/10.1016/j.jom.2012.06.002
Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., & Podsakoff, N. P. (2003). Common method biases in
behavioral research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 88(5), 879-903. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/0021-9010.88.5.879
Putnick, D. L., & Bornstein, M. H. (2016). Measurement invariance conventions and reporting: The state of the
art and future directions for psychological research. Developmental Review, 41, 71-90. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.dr.2016.06.004
Rousseau, D. M., Manning, J., & Denyer, D. (2008). Evidence in management and organizational science:
Assembling the field’s full weight of scientific knowledge through syntheses. Academy of Management
Annals, 2(1), 475-515. https://doi.org/10.5465/19416520802211651
Rungtusanatham, M., Miller, J., & Boyer, K. (2014). Theorizing, testing, and concluding for mediation in SCM
research: Tutorial and procedural recommendations. Journal of Operations Management, 32(3), 99-113.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jom.2014.01.002
Saldana, J. (2013). The coding manual for qualitative researchers. Sage.
Salleh, S., Thokala, P., Brennan, A., Hughes, R., & Booth, A. (2017). Simulation modelling in healthcare: An
umbrella review of systematic literature reviews. PharmacoEconomics, 35(9), 937-949. https://doi.org/
10.1007/s40273-017-0523-3
Schlomer, G. L., Bauman, S., & Card, N. A. (2010). Best practices for missing data management in
counseling psychology. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 57(1), 1-10. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.
1037/a0018082
Schmitt, N., & Kuljanin, G. (2008). Measurement invariance: Review of practice and implications. Human
Resource Management Review, 18(4), 210-222. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hrmr.2008.03.003
Schriesheim, C. A., Castro, S. L., Zhou, X. T., & Yammarino, F. J. (2001). The folly of theorizing “A” but
testing “B”: A selective level-of-analysis review of the field and a detailed leader–member exchange
illustration. The Leadership Quarterly, 12(4), 515-551. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1048-9843(01)00095-9
Schwab, A., & Starbuck, W. H. (2017). A call for openness in research reporting: How to turn covert practices
into helpful tools. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 16(1), 125-141. https://doi.org/10.5465/
amle.2016.0039
Seuring, S., & Gold, S. (2012). Conducting content-analysis based literature reviews in supply chain manage-
ment. Supply Chain Management, 17(5), 544-555. https://doi.org/10.1108/13598541211258609
74
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


Shah, R., & Goldstein, S. M. (2006). Use of structural equation modeling in operations management research:
Looking back and forward. Journal of Operations Management, 24(2), 148-169. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.jom.2005.05.001
Shook, C. L., Ketchen, D. J., Jr., Hult, G. M., & Kacmar, K. M. (2004). An assessment of the use of structural
equation modeling in strategic management research. Strategic Management Journal, 25(4), 397-404.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.385
Short, J. (2009). The art of writing a review article. Journal of Management, 35(6), 1312-1317. https://psycnet
.apa.org/doi/10.1177/0149206309337489
Simmering, M. J., Fuller, C. M., Richardson, H. A., Ocal, Y., & Atinc, G. M. (2015). Marker variable choice,
reporting, and interpretation in the detection of common method variance: A review and demonstration.
Organizational Research Methods, 18(3), 473-511. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428114560023
Stentz, J. E., Clark, V. L. P., & Matkin, G. S. (2012). Applying mixed methods to leadership research: A review
of current practices. The Leadership Quarterly, 23(6), 1173-1183. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2012
.10.001
Sterner, W. R. (2011). What is missing in counseling research? Reporting missing data. Journal of Counseling
& Development, 89(1), 56-62. https://doi.org/10.1002/j.1556-6678.2011.tb00060.x
Tangpong, C. (2011). Content analytic approach to measuring constructs in operations and supply chain
management. Journal of Operations Management, 29(6), 627-638. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jom.2010.
08.001
Tonidandel, S., King, E. B., & Cortina, J. M. (2018). Big data methods: Leveraging modern data analytic
techniques to build organizational science. Organizational Research Methods, 21(3), 525-547. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1094428116677299
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a methodology for developing evidence-informed
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British Journal of Management, 14(3), 207-222.
https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8551.00375
Van Iddekinge, C. H., Aguinis, H., Mackey, J. D., & DeOrtentiis, P. S. (2018). A meta-analysis of the
interactive, additive, and relative effects of cognitive ability and motivation on performance. Journal of
Management, 44(1), 249-279. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206317702220
Van Iddekinge, C. H., & Ployhart, R. E. (2008). Developments in the criterion-related validation of selection
procedures: A critical review and recommendations for practice. Personnel Psychology, 61(4), 871-925.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1744-6570.2008.00133.x
Vandenberg, R. J. (2008). Editorial. Organizational Research Methods, 11(1), 6-8. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428107309347
Vandenberg, R. J., & Lance, C. E. (2000). A review and synthesis of the measurement invariance literature:
Suggestions, practices, and recommendations for organizational research. Organizational Research
Methods, 3(1), 4-70. https://doi.org/10.1177/109442810031002
Venkatesh, V., Brown, S. A., & Bala, H. (2013). Bridging the qualitative-quantitative divide: Guidelines for
conducting mixed methods research in information systems. MIS Quarterly, 37(1), 21-54. www.jstor.org/
stable/43825936
Waller, M. J., & Kaplan, S. A. (2018). Systematic behavioral observation for emergent team phenomena.
Organizational Research Methods, 21(2), 500-515. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428116647785
Weber, R. (1990). Basic content analysis. Sage.
Weekley, J. A., Hawkes, B., Guenole, N., & Ployhart, R. E. (2015). Low-fidelity simulations. Annual Review of
Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 2, 295-322. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-orgp
sych-032414-111304
Williams, L. J., Hartman, N., & Cavazotte, F. (2010). Method variance and marker variables: A review and
comprehensive CFA marker technique. Organizational Research Methods, 13(3), 477-514. https://doi.org/
10.1177/1094428110366036
75
Aguinis et al.


Wood, R. E., Goodman, J. S., Beckmann, N., & Cook, A. (2008). Mediation testing in management research: A
review and proposals. Organizational Research Methods, 11(2), 270-295. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428106297811
Worthington, R. L., & Whittaker, T. A. (2006). Scale development research: A content analysis and recom-
mendations for best practices. The Counseling Psychologist, 34(6), 806-838. https://doi.org/10.1177/
0011000006288127
Wright, P. M. (2016). Ensuring research integrity: An editor’s perspective. Journal of Management, 42(5),
1037-1043. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206316643931
Yammarino, F. J., Dionne, S. D., Chun, J. U., & Dansereau, F. (2005). Leadership and levels of analysis: A
state-of-the-science review. The Leadership Quarterly, 16(6), 879-919. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua
.2005.09.002
Author Biographies
Herman Aguinis is the Avram Tucker Distinguished Scholar and Professor of Management at The George
Washington University School of Business. His research addresses the acquisition and deployment of talent in
organizations and organizational research methods. He has published nine books and about 170 articles in
refereed journals. He is a fellow of the Academy of Management (AOM), former editor of Organizational
Research Methods, and received the Academy of Management Research Methods Division Distinguished
Career Award. He was elected for the presidency track of AOM and is serving as AOM Vice President &
Program Chair, President Elect, President, and Past President during 2019-2023. For more information, visit
www.hermanaguinis.com.
Ravi S. Ramani is an assistant professor of organizational behavior and human resource management in the
Earl G. Graves School of Business and Management at Morgan State University. His research interests include
career development, progression, and outcomes; management education and scholarly impact; and organiza-
tional research methods. His work has been published in Academy of Management Annals, Academy of
Management Learning and Education, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal of International Busi-
ness Studies, Organizational Research Methods, and elsewhere.
Nawaf Alabduljader is a professor of management at Kuwait University, College of Business Administration.
His research interests include entrepreneurship, leadership, teams, organizational behavior, and human resource
management. His work has received a best paper award from the Management Education and Development
division of the Academy of Management and has been published in Academy of Management Annals, Academy
of Management Learning and Education, and elsewhere. He earned his PhD from The George Washington
University School of Business.
76
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)


