Text Preprocessing for Text
Mining in Organizational
Research: Review
and Recommendations
Louis Hickman1 , Stuti Thapa1, Louis Tay1,
Mengyang Cao2, and Padmini Srinivasan3
Abstract
Recent advances in text mining have provided new methods for capitalizing on the voluminous
natural language text data created by organizations, their employees, and their customers. Although
often overlooked, decisions made during text preprocessing affect whether the content and/or style
of language are captured, the statistical power of subsequent analyses, and the validity of insights
derived from text mining. Past methodological articles have described the general process of
obtaining and analyzing text data, but recommendations for preprocessing text data were incon-
sistent. Furthermore, primary studies use and report different preprocessing techniques. To address
this, we conduct two complementary reviews of computational linguistics and organizational text
mining research to provide empirically grounded text preprocessing decision-making recommen-
dations that account for the type of text mining conducted (i.e., open or closed vocabulary), the
research question under investigation, and the data set’s characteristics (i.e., corpus size and average
document length). Notably, deviations from these recommendations will be appropriate and, at
times, necessary due to the unique characteristics of one’s text data. We also provide recom-
mendations for reporting text mining to promote transparency and reproducibility.
Keywords
open vocabulary, closed vocabulary, stemming, text mining, best practices
Text mining is increasingly being used in organizational research and practice because up to 80% of
organizational data are stored as unstructured, natural language text (Grimes, 2008). Researchers
have used closed vocabulary text mining over the past three decades to summarize text data by
1Purdue University College of Health and Human Sciences, West Lafayette, IN, USA
2
3University of Iowa, Computer Science, Iowa City, IA, USA
Corresponding Author:
Louis Hickman, Purdue University College of Health and Human Sciences, 700 W State St, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.
Email: lchickma@purdue.edu
Organizational Research Methods
ª The Author(s) 2020
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/1094428120971683
journals.sagepub.com/home/orm
2022, Vol. 25(1) 114–146
Article
Independent


counting conceptually related words and phrases to score constructs (e.g., entrepreneurial orienta-
tion; Short et al., 2010). Recently, new methods and open source software have emerged that can use
any words and/or phrases in text as the unit of analysis, known as open vocabulary text mining
(Schwartz, Eichstaedt, Kern, et al., 2013) and, more broadly, natural language processing (NLP;
Oswald et al., 2020). Open vocabulary text mining has garnered interest in organizational research
and practice (e.g., Li, 2019) because it can be used to improve employee selection and assessment
(Campion et al., 2016; Sajjadiani et al., 2019; Speer, 2018) and advance organizational theory by
helping researchers uncover emergent processes, develop new classification systems, and analyze
social and cultural dynamics (Hannigan et al., 2019). Both closed and open vocabulary text mining
represent methods of analyzing natural language text data that save considerable time and expense
compared to traditional, manual coding of text.
The emergence of open vocabulary text mining has increased the need for and prevalence of
preprocessing natural language texts before analysis. Preprocessing involves transforming text prior
to analysis by identifying which units (e.g., words and phrases) to use (i.e., tokenize), removing
content that is irrelevant for some tasks (i.e., remove nonalphabetic characters and stop words),
agglomerating semantically related terms to decrease data sparsity and increase predictive power
(i.e., lowercase conversion, correct misspellings, expand contractions/abbreviations, and stem/lem-
matize), and increasing the amount of semantic information that is captured (i.e., handling negation).
However, this means that preprocessing can also remove useful information (e.g., removing stop
words when they are relevant to one’s research question), introduce errors into analysis (e.g., when
stemming conflates semantically distinct words), and drastically alter subsequent results
(Boyd, 2016).
Despite its importance, text preprocessing is often glossed over and poorly reported in text
mining research (Fokkens et al., 2013). For example, the vast majority of closed vocabulary text
mining studies do not report conducting any preprocessing (see Table 4), although some closed
vocabulary software packages (e.g., Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count) recommend that
researchers preprocess texts to enhance measurement precision (Pennebaker, Booth, et al.,
2015). This is particularly concerning because preprocessing may affect the reliability and validity
of results in the same way that researcher degrees of freedom (Simmons et al., 2011) can alter
research findings during metaanalytic coding (Wanous et al., 1989), qualitative research (Jonsen
et al., 2018), and screening quantitative responses (Meade & Craig, 2012). To further complicate
things, past research has provided conflicting preprocessing recommendations—for instance,
organizational researchers have provided four distinct recommendations for stemming during
open vocabulary text mining: Always stem except on short documents (Kobayashi et al.,
2018a), only stem in small corpora (Kern et al., 2016), only stem if it does not reduce classifica-
tion/prediction accuracy (Kobayashi et al., 2018b), and cautiously consider stemming only after
conducting topic modeling (Banks et al., 2018).
This article seeks to improve current text preprocessing practices, resolve these conflicting
preprocessing recommendations, and provide reporting guidelines for text mining research. First,
we advance our understanding of the conceptual and empirical considerations that should drive
preprocessing decisions. We do so by considering whether one’s research question is best addressed
by closed or open vocabulary text mining, if it necessitates capturing what people communicate and/
or how they communicate (i.e., the content and style of speech; Pennebaker et al., 2003), and the
characteristics of one’s corpus (i.e., corpus size and average document length). Then, when describ-
ing the preprocessing techniques, we discuss how each technique affects statistical power, measure-
ment validity, and one’s ability to extract various textual features.
Second, we review text preprocessing comparison research in computational linguistics (a sub-
field of linguistics and computer science that is responsible for the development of open vocabulary
text mining) to derive preprocessing best practices. We then use those findings to critically review
115
Hickman et al.


the preprocessing practices in organizational research. Conducting these two reviews together
advances our understanding of whether organizational scholars follow preprocessing best practices.
Third, we use the information gleaned from these reviews to provide recommendations for
conducting text mining preprocessing, as summarized in Figure 1, and reporting text mining
Figure 1. Preprocessing recommendations for open and closed vocabulary text mining.
Note: This diagram presents preprocessing considerations in order of conceptual importance, not necessarily the
order in which preprocessing will be conducted. RQ ¼ research question; OV ¼ open vocabulary; *indicates that
many closed vocabulary software programs perform this preprocessing technique without user input.
116
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


research, as summarized in Table 5. Such recommendations have been provided for established
research methods (e.g., surveys, meta-analysis; APA Publications and Communications Board,
2008) but not yet for text mining. Our preprocessing recommendations aim to be comprehensive,
but we recognize there are situations where specific research questions or unique data sets may
necessitate deviating from these recommendations. As the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count
(LIWC) operator manual notes, during preprocessing, one should “keep in mind what your goals
are in analyzing the data” (Pennebaker, Booth, et al., 2015, p. 15). Notably, our recommendations
are informed by consideration of later stages of the text mining process, including which features
will be extracted (i.e., open or closed vocabulary features) and the nature of one’s research question,
because the optimal preprocessing techniques may differ for different textual features (e.g., n-grams,
topic models, closed vocabulary dictionaries) and goals (e.g., investigating trait-like or state-like
variables). Overall, our paper aims to improve the validity of text mining results, researchers’
understanding of the effects of preprocessing, and the transparency and replicability of text mining
research.
Conceptual and Empirical Considerations for Text Preprocessing
Before describing the various preprocessing techniques, it is essential to understand why and when
preprocessing may affect text mining results. Specifically, preprocessing should first be considered
in the context of one’s research question: Is the research question best addressed by using closed and/
or open vocabulary text mining, and is the research question relevant to the content and/or style of
speech? Second, preprocessing should be considered in the context of one’s corpus: Is the corpus
large or small (i.e., how many documents are in the corpus), and how long, on average, are the
documents in the corpus? Text mining terms relevant to this discussion are defined in Table 1.
Research Question
Closed and/or Open Vocabulary Text Mining. When one has a corpus of natural language text (i.e., a
collection of documents), it is possible to extract features using either closed vocabulary text mining,
open vocabulary text mining, or both (hybrid methods also exist; see DICTION’s Insistence func-
tion1). Preprocessing decisions can alter the validity of text mining by affecting whether words and/
or phrases are accurately captured. Importantly, closed and open vocabulary text mining have
different preprocessing needs, but to understand why, it is necessary to explain how closed and
open vocabulary text mining work.
Closed vocabulary text mining counts words and phrases in a priori dictionaries, making it a more
deductive approach to extracting textual information. These dictionaries are generally developed to
capture specific constructs, which may be linguistic or psychological in nature. As an extension of
manual coding, researchers can use existing dictionaries or create new ones to automatically count
the number of times words and/or phrases appear (e.g., counting the number of positive words in the
text to measure positivity), treating the number of occurrences of words in a dictionary as the
construct score. For example, LIWC has linguistic dictionaries that count the use of pronouns, verbs,
and punctuation as well as psychological dictionaries including drives (i.e., affiliation, achievement,
power, reward, and risk), positive emotions, and negative emotions (Pennebaker, Boyd et al., 2015).
Researchers have also developed dictionaries for organizational constructs, including entrepreneur-
ial orientation (Short et al., 2010) and the great eight performance dimensions (Speer et al., 2018).
The dictionary scores can then be used in traditional analyses (e.g., regression-based hypothesis
testing) or in machine learning, whether supervised or unsupervised.
In closed vocabulary text mining, the choice of which dictionaries to use is the sole determinant
of what textual features are computed. With this in mind, preprocessing can adversely affect
117
Hickman et al.


measurement precision in closed vocabulary text mining by inadvertently altering words in the
corpus or creating a mismatch between how a word appears in the corpus and how it appears in
the dictionary. However, preprocessing can also be used to enhance measurement precision by
transforming all the variations, colloquialisms, or misspellings of a word within a corpus to its
Table 1. Definitions of Terms Relevant to Text Mining and Preprocessing.
Term
Definition
Example Application Issue
Closed vocabulary
Text mining techniques that count entries
in a priori dictionaries (i.e., lists of
conceptually related words and phrases)
to analyze language.
Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC;
Pennebaker, Boyd, et al., 2015) has
dictionaries to represent such diverse
constructs as positive/negative emotions,
causation, and inclusivity/exclusivity.
Content words
Words and phrases that convey what is
being communicated, including nouns
(e.g., coworker), regular verbs (e.g., learn),
adjectives and adverbs (e.g., happy).
The content of speech is important for
virtually all applications of text mining.
What is said is a key focus of text mining
research.
Corpus
A collection of text documents
representing a specific variety of language
(Pollach, 2012).
Examples of corpora used for text mining
include applicant achievement records
(Campion et al., 2016), performance
reviews (Speer, 2018), and research
articles (Antons et al., 2019).
Function words
Words and phrases that convey the style of
language and how communication is
delivered, including articles (e.g., the),
auxiliary verbs (e.g., am), conjunctions
(e.g., and), prepositions (e.g., to), and
pronouns (e.g., I).
Function words, the style of speech, are
important for understanding individual
differences because people tend to have
stable between-person differences in how
they communicate (Pennebaker et al.,
2003).
n-gram
n-grams are phrases of length n. Generally,
text mining uses n-grams where n ¼ 1
(unigrams), 2 (bigrams), or 3 (trigrams),
but longer phrases are unlikely to be
informative because they occur too
infrequently (Kern et al., 2016).
Speer (2018) used unigrams, bigrams, and
trigrams to investigate performance
reviews. Many bigrams and trigrams
predicted subsequent job performance
and capture more semantic information
than unigrams.
Open vocabulary
Text mining techniques for utilizing
emergent textual features (e.g., n-grams
and topic models) as the basis
for analysis.
Kern et al. (2014) introduced this approach
to the psychology and management fields
by analyzing Facebook posts to predict
personality traits.
Tokenizer
Removes extra white space and breaks text
apart to identify meaningful units, called
tokens—usually words but can also be
phrases (n-grams) and emoticons
(Gonz´alez-Bail´on & Paltoglou, 2015;
Manning et al., 2008).
Social media data face particular challenges
deciding how to identify words and so
must include rules for splitting emoticons
as well as text (Kern et al., 2016).
Topic modeling
Analogous to factor analysis, these are
probabilistic models that assess term
cooccurrence frequencies, assigning n-
grams loadings to topics and assigning
documents loadings for the extent they
contain each topic (Schmiedel et al., 2019).
Latent Dirichlet allocation (Blei et al., 2003)
has been used to analyze how
professional discussions change over
time (Croidieu & Kim, 2018), to
understand the characteristics of
impactful research (Antons et al., 2019),
and to understand multinational
corporation recruiting signals across
cultures (Banks et al., 2019).
118
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


dictionary entry. For instance, in the popular LIWC, all text is automatically converted to lowercase
(otherwise, capitalized words will not match their lowercase dictionary entries), and the technical
manual encourages users to correct spelling errors and expand abbreviations (Pennebaker, Booth,
et al., 2015).
The effects of preprocessing on one’s results are pronounced in open vocabulary text mining.
Open vocabulary text mining has no dictionaries to specify which words are of interest and, there-
fore, no preformed notions about which words and/or phrases are valuable, making it a more
inductive approach to extracting textual information. The variables extracted from open vocabulary
text mining are frequently used in machine learning, whether supervised or unsupervised (Kobaya-
shi et al., 2018b). In open vocabulary text mining, any n-gram (i.e., phrases of length n) can be
counted and used as a variable, making it a useful approach in contexts with nonstandard spellings,
abbreviations, and emoticons, which may not be present in closed vocabulary dictionaries (Park
et al., 2015). Open vocabulary text mining is often conducted in R or Python, leaving the user to
specify all preprocessing decisions. Preprocessing decisions determine what is captured in open
vocabulary text mining because preprocessing techniques alter and/or remove words from text.
Content and/or Style of Speech. Text mining can be used to address a wide variety of research
questions. For example, topic modeling (an open vocabulary technique that involves identifying
the latent topics in texts) has been used to address myriad organizational research questions (Han-
nigan et al., 2019). One increasingly common way that text mining is used in social psychology is to
infer traits and trait-like individual differences from text, such as social media posts (e.g., Park et al.,
2015), which has been used to distinguish the average personality traits of workers in a given
occupation (Kern et al., 2019) and to help with identifying and recruiting prospective applicants
with job-relevant traits (Faliagka et al., 2012). Researchers have also applied text mining for a
variety of other tasks, including understanding the similarity of texts (Banks et al., 2018), under-
standing context-specific “state” variables like attitudes (e.g., sentiment analysis), and predicting
behavioral outcomes from text data (Piezunka & Dahlander, 2015). In other words, some research
questions are focused on extracting trait-like individual differences from text, whereas others are
interested in extracting state-like variables.
To understand how preprocessing may affect one’s ability to address these two types of research
questions, we draw on Pennebaker’s distinction between the content of speech (i.e., what is being
said; content words) and the style of speech (i.e., how it is being said; function words; Pennebaker
et al., 2003). Some preprocessing techniques alter the validity of content captured from text, and
several remove elements of the style of speech. Content words include nouns (e.g., coworker,
friend), regular verbs (e.g., grow, learn), and many adjectives and adverbs (e.g., happy, very) and
convey what is said. Therefore, content words tend to differ from situation to situation given that
language reflects situation-dependent topics. In contrast, the style of speech is comprised of function
words (i.e., particles), including articles (e.g., a, the), auxiliary verbs (e.g., am, will), conjunctions
(e.g., and, but), prepositions (e.g., to, with), and pronouns (e.g., I, he, she). Function words represent
how language is delivered and tend to be used more consistently across situations within individuals
(Pennebaker et al., 2003).
As a result of the differences in how content and function words differ within and between people,
content words tend to be more important for understanding state-like variables. For instance, Speer
(2018) used the content of performance appraisals in Year 1 to predict Year 2 performance ratings
while controlling for Year 1 performance ratings. Similarly, Campion et al. (2016) used content
words to extract the topics in texts and used those topics to automatically score achievement records
by modeling the scores given by human raters.
On the other hand, function words tend to be more important for understanding trait-like vari-
ables. Function words make up only 0.05% of the English vocabulary, yet they comprise over half of
119
Hickman et al.


all words spoken and written in everyday communication (Tausczik & Pennebaker, 2010). Differ-
ences in the use of function words can indicate individual differences including age, sex, honesty,
status, personality traits, and more (Pennebaker et al., 2003; Tausczik & Pennebaker, 2010). This is
known as the human stylome, which distinguishes individuals based on their writing the same way
that their genome distinguishes them based on their DNA (van Halteren et al., 2005). For example,
Park et al.’s (2015) study of U.S. Facebook users found that many n-grams (i.e., phrases of length n,
where n ¼ 1 is isolated words, n ¼ 2 is two-word phrases, etc.) most predictive of extraversion
contained pronouns (e.g., I can’t, it is), prepositions (e.g., from, of, into), and articles (e.g., the, as).
Furthermore, a study of online communities found that groups can be distinguished based on their
linguistic style, which included multiple types of function words, including prepositions (e.g., to,
with, on), adverbs (e.g., very, really), auxiliary verbs (e.g., am, will, have), and negations (e.g., no,
never; Khalid & Srinivasan, 2020), which could be applied in organizational settings to help
understand team and/or group differences.
As we describe in the following, preprocessing may affect whether function words, which
represent linguistic style, are still present in speech. Furthermore, preprocessing affects whether
other elements of style that may be related to trait-like differences, such as the use of abbreviations
or spelling errors, are present in text. Therefore, one’s research question is an important consider-
ation when making preprocessing decisions. For example, if one’s research question relates to trait-
like individual differences, idiosyncrasies such as typos and misspellings may be informative, but
when one’s research question does not relate to trait-like individual differences, standardizing such
idiosyncrasies can improve measurement precision.
Corpus Size
The size of one’s corpus also matters for preprocessing (Kern et al., 2016; Kobayashi et al., 2018a).
Large corpora (i.e., those with more documents) have more power to utilize fine distinctions in text
(e.g., between singular and plural versions of nouns or past and present tense verbs). On the other
hand, small corpora have less power to do so. Therefore, statistical power can be increased in small
corpora by, for example, combining semantically related words. Yet such increases in power come at
the expense of losing nuance in language, potentially introducing errors and, thereby, reducing
validity. Corpora may be considered large when a thousand or more observations are available
(e.g., Kern et al., 2016).
Average Document Length
In a related vein, the length of documents in one’s corpus should also be considered during pre-
processing (Kobayashi et al., 2018a). Shorter documents (e.g., tweets, open-ended survey responses)
contain minimal content. Therefore, even if the research question does not relate to individual
differences, more predictive power is available if the style of speech is retained. On the other hand,
because longer documents (e.g., comprehensive performance reviews) have more content, the style
of speech is less needed when irrelevant to one’s research question. Generally, documents can be
considered short if they contain fewer than 500 words (Kern et al., 2016), although researchers in
other fields (e.g., computational linguistics) suggest that documents are short when, on average, they
contain fewer than two dozen words (e.g., tweets; Faguo et al., 2010).
Preprocessing and Text Mining Overview
We now turn to explain preprocessing techniques and their effects on text mining, relating them to
the aforementioned conceptual and empirical considerations. Table 2 defines and describes each
120
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


Table 2. Preprocessing and Related Terms, Defined.
Term
Definition
Example Application
Issue
Effects
Recommendation
Lowercase
conversation
Reduce vocabulary size
by making all text
lowercase.
Computers store
capital and lowercase
letters differently
(e.g., the now defunct
ASCII convention
stored “A” as “65”
and “a” as “97”).
Because capital and
lowercase words are
stored with distinct
computer language,
making all letters
lowercase ensures
work is considered
equivalent to Work
(George et al., 2016).
Increases
statistical
power.
Always use unless
corpus has
important terms
that differ
semantically
when capitalized
versus not.
Handle negation
A set of methods used
to identify,
semantically
represent, and
account for negation
in text.
Because bag-of-words
approach (i.e.,
unigrams) considers
words in isolation,
appending each “not”
to the following
word with “_”
distinguishes
satisfactory from not
satisfactory (e.g.,
Speer, 2018).
Increases
validity.
Slightly
reduces
statistical
power.
Always use.
Spelling correction
Reduces vocabulary
size by correcting
typos and
misspellings in text.
Correcting misspellings
can help standardize
texts and reduce
noise, but such
idiosyncrasies can be
used to predict
individual differences
(Kern et al., 2016).
Increases
statistical
power.
Reduces
ability to
capture the
style of
speech.
Open vocabulary:
use if research
question does
not involve
individual
differences.
Closed
vocabulary: use.
Expand contractions
and abbreviations
Reduces vocabulary
size by expanding
contractions,
abbreviations, and
acronyms to their full
phrases for
consistency
(Kobayashi et al.,
2018b).
In many of today’s
business texts, it is
possible that a
reference to IT is
referring to
information
technology, and only
by replacing the
acronym will it not
be conflated with it
(Banks et al., 2018).
Increases
statistical
power.
Reduces
ability to
capture style
of speech.
Reduces
validity if
errors are
introduced.
Open vocabulary:
use if research
question does
not involve
individual
differences.
Closed
vocabulary: use if
dictionaries only
contain the
expanded
term(s).
Nonalphabetic
character
removal
Removes all numbers,
punctuation, and/or
special characters
from the text. It is
also common to only
remove numbers or
punctuation rather
than all
nonalphabetic
characters.
The use of exclamation
points may indicate
personality traits
(Golbeck et al.,
2011), so
punctuation could be
retained while
numbers and special
characters are
removed.
Increases
statistical
power.
Reduces
ability to
capture style
of speech and
validity.
Open vocabulary:
use if research
question does
not involve
individual
differences.
Closed
vocabulary: do
not use.
(continued)
121
Hickman et al.


Table 2. (continued)
Term
Definition
Example Application
Issue
Effects
Recommendation
Emoticon
recognition
Identifies and counts
emoticons as words
that can be counted
for subsequent
analysis.
In social media,
recognizing
emoticons can
increase semantic
representation
because they tend to
carry affective
information.
Increases
validity.
Use if emoticons
are present in
corpus.
Stop word removal Removes extremely
common words that
are considered to be
unlikely to provide
value for document
retrieval or analysis
(Banks et al., 2018).
In general, words are
removed that do not
provide much
information (e.g., a,
an, it). Others have
suggested these
words are key for
assessing people’s
unique
communicative style
(Pennebaker et al.,
2003).
Increases
statistical
power.
Decreases
ability to
capture style
of speech and
validity.
Open vocabulary:
use if research
question does
not involve
individual
differences and
documents are
long.
Closed
vocabulary: do
not use.
Lemmatizer
Reduces vocabulary
size by using
morphological
information to
remove inflectional
endings from words
to get to the base
form of the word, or
the lemma (Manning,
et al., 2008).
Lemmatizers
consider a word’s
part of speech to
distinguish between
homophones.
The Natural Language
Toolkit Wordnet
lemmatizer (Bird et
al., 2009) would
transform organized
and organize to
organize, whereas
organization and
organizations would
become organization.
Notice the results
differ from the
Porter Stemmer and
that distinct words
are not conflated.
Increases
statistical
power.
Open vocabulary:
use on small
corpora unless
using topic
modeling.
Closed
vocabulary:
cautiously
consider using on
both the
dictionary and
corpus in closed
vocabulary text
mining.
Stemmer
Reduces vocabulary
size by using heuristic
algorithms to
“remove
morphological affixes
from words, leaving
only the word stem”
(Bird et al., 2009),
which is not
necessarily the base
form of the word.
The widely used Porter
stemmer (Porter,
1980) would stem
organ, organs, organic,
organism, organize,
and organization to
organ, whereas
organizational would
be stemmed to
organiz. In closed
vocabulary methods,
using wild characters
to count words with
a common stem
serves the same
function.
Increases
statistical
power.
Reduces
validity if
errors are
introduced.
If possible, use
lemmatizer.
Otherwise, see:
Lemmatizer row.
122
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


preprocessing technique, details their effects on text mining analyses, and summarizes our recom-
mendations for whether and when to apply them in closed and open vocabulary text mining (we
preview the recommendations here and describe them in more detail in the Discussion). Preproces-
sing involves techniques, for example, that account for more semantic information to increase the
validity of results (e.g., handling negation) or reduce dimensionality by treating distinct forms of the
same word as a single unit to increase power (e.g., stemming/lemmatizing). After reviewing pre-
processing techniques, we explain how text is quantified and analyzed to consider preprocessing
decisions in the context of the features one plans to extract and to couch preprocessing in the broader
text mining process.
Lowercase conversion involves converting all letters in a corpus to lowercase. Researchers have
suggested to always use lowercase conversion during open vocabulary text mining (Banks et al.,
2018; Kobayashi et al., 2018b). Computers represent capital and lowercase letters differently, so the
same word capitalized versus lowercase may be counted separately if not unified. Capitalization is
mainly used to identify proper nouns and acronyms—otherwise, it tends not to carry semantic
information. Lowercase conversion tends to be beneficial because it decreases data dimensionality,
thereby increasing statistical power, and usually does not reduce validity. Indeed, closed vocabulary
tools generally perform lowercase conversion without user intervention (e.g., LIWC; Pennebaker,
Booth, et al., 2015), meaning that lowercase conversion is generally conducted during closed
vocabulary text mining but is unlikely to be reported by researchers.
A variety of methods exist for handling negation. Negations have an important role in language
because they usually alter the meaning of subsequent words. For instance, good should never be
counted the same as not good, yet if not properly handled in text mining, each occurrence of not good
will be counted as an instance of both not and good, thereby conflating not good and good. One
rudimentary method of handling negation involves appending not_ to each word it precedes, thereby
creating a new, distinct unigram (e.g., Speer, 2018). This can increase data dimensionality propor-
tionally with the number of words preceded by negations and, therefore, likely decreases statistical
power. Importantly, however, handling negation captures more semantic information, reduces error,
and increases validity. This applies to both open and closed vocabulary text mining—if negation is
not addressed, both open and closed vocabulary text mining may conflate negated and nonnegated
forms of words. For example, unaddressed negation is one of the most prevalent sources of error in
closed vocabulary text mining (Schwartz, Eichstaedt, Blanco, et al., 2013). Appending not_ creates a
new, distinct unigram in open vocabulary text mining and prevents the negated form from being
counted in closed vocabulary text mining (i.e., because this modified form will not be present in the
closed vocabulary dictionaries).
Correcting spelling errors and expanding contractions and abbreviations involves identifying
instances of each, then correcting/expanding them to standardize the text. Typos, contractions, and
abbreviations that appear only a few times in a corpus will likely provide little value for subsequent
analysis in open vocabulary text mining, so correcting them has the potential to reduce dimension-
ality and increase power. On the other hand, spelling errors may be informative—for example, an
automated system for screening resumes may not want to correct spelling errors because the rate of
such errors may relate to workplace outcomes, and other types of idiosyncrasies represent one’s style
of speech and may also relate to trait-like individual differences (Kern et al., 2016). Indeed, previous
recommendations have cautioned against making such corrections if the research question is focused
on individual differences (Kern et al., 2016), yet it can be useful in nonformal texts where errors are
more likely (Kobayashi et al., 2018a, 2018b). Importantly, it may be easier to identify and expand
acronyms (a form of abbreviation) if done prior to lowercase conversion because capitalization is
one way of identifying acronyms. Using these techniques may be especially useful in closed voca-
bulary text mining because all nonstandard spellings, abbreviations, and contractions will not be
123
Hickman et al.


counted unless they are included in the focal dictionaries (another option is to add them to the focal
dictionaries; Pennebaker, Booth, et al., 2015).
Removing nonalphabetic characters involves removing punctuation, symbols, and/or numbers
from text. If nonalphabetic characters are retained in open vocabulary text mining, each instance of
an n-gram adjacent to punctuation (e.g., at the end of a sentence) may be treated distinctly from other
instances if not properly handled during tokenization (i.e., identifying the units of analysis for open
vocabulary text mining). Therefore, this technique is commonly conducted to focus on the words
and phrases in text, with some researchers suggesting to always remove punctuation (Banks et al.,
2018) and others suggesting not to remove nonalphabetic characters when in doubt (Kobayashi et al.,
2018b). Researchers may not want to remove nonalphabetic characters when their research question
relates to trait-like individual differences because punctuation is one element of style, as are lan-
guage variables that require punctuation, such as the number of words in a sentence (Pennebaker,
Boyd, et al., 2015). For example, the use of exclamation points is related to personality traits
(Golbeck et al., 2011), and punctuation is needed to quantify indices of linguistic complexity that
use the number of words per sentence, such as Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level. Further complicating
matters, periods may also occur in times (e.g., 6:30 p.m.), email addresses (e.g., username@websi-
te.com), and elsewhere—they will need to be removed from these words and phrases but not the ends
of sentences to measure words per sentence. Furthermore, researchers are increasingly using social
media text data that contain emoticons (e.g.,: D). Emoticons carry positive and negative sentiment,
and their use also likely reflects individual differences (Kern et al., 2016) as well as cross-cultural
differences in emotional expression (e.g., Li et al., 2019). Where emoticons are present, emoticon
recognition should be used (although we do not include emoticon recognition in Figure 1, when
emoticons are present, they should be counted regardless of whether one is using open or closed
vocabulary text mining). Furthermore, the end of sentences will sometimes need to be handled in a
special way—for instance, it may not be meaningful to count n-grams that span sentence boundaries,
and to avoid counting such phrases, punctuation must be retained until later in the process. In closed
vocabulary text mining, punctuation should generally be retained because the choice of dictionaries
determines whether they will be counted.
Stop words are words so common in a corpus that they may become uninformative, and stop
words are often removed during open vocabulary text mining preprocessing. For instance, in infor-
mation retrieval (i.e., online and offline search), stop words are rarely useful, and removing them
decreases computation time. Researchers have suggested to always remove stop words (Banks et al.,
2018), to do so except in short documents (Kobayashi et al., 2018a, 2018b), and to do so in small
corpora unless predicting individual differences (Kern et al., 2016). Such exceptions are necessary
because many stop words are also function words that make up one’s style of speech. In closed
vocabulary text mining, stop words should always be retained because the choice of dictionaries
determines whether they will be counted. In open vocabulary text mining, stop words should be
retained when one’s research question relates to individual differences. Domain-specific lists of
frequently occurring words in a corpus can be generated for removal, or generic stop word lists that
include common terms such as the, a, and and can be used.
Stemming and lemmatization involve removing word suffixes to transform them to their root
form (a stem and lemma, respectively). This was originally done in open vocabulary text mining for
the same reason as removing stop words—to reduce computation time and improve recall in
information retrieval. However, they can also increase power by reducing dimensionality. Prior
recommendations have focused only on stemming, suggesting that it is useful on small corpora
(Kern et al., 2016) or short documents (Kobayashi et al., 2018a) but also cautioning that it can be
considered only after conducting topic modeling (Banks et al., 2018) and that stemming should only
be conducted if it does not reduce predictive accuracy in the resulting analyses (Kobaysahi et al.,
2018b). Caution is warranted because collapsing word variants into a single root can remove
124
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


differences in the style of speech and/or misclassify words if not careful. Furthermore, stemming and
lemmatization are very different processes and create different outcomes. Stemmers use rule-based
heuristics to remove word suffixes, leaving only the “stem,” without considering homographs (i.e.,
words spelled the same but with different meanings). On the other hand, lemmatizers consider the
part of speech of words (e.g., verb, noun) and use a lexicon of words and their variants to transform
them into their lemma. Stemming tends to reduce dimensionality more than lemmatizing, but
stemming can also collapse distinct words (or different forms of a word that have distinct meanings)
to the same stem (e.g., the Porter stemmer would collapse organ, organs, organic, organism,
organize, and organization to organ). Furthermore, the stems left after stemming are often not
actual words, making them difficult to interpret. Alternatively, lemmatizers use a lexicon to change
words to their lemma, meaning that words with a common stem tend to be reduced to their respec-
tive, distinct forms (e.g., organ and organs would collapse to organ, whereas organic, organism,
organize, and organization would be unchanged because they have distinct meanings and/or dif-
ferent parts of speech). Therefore, stemming can increase power more than lemmatizing does, but it
may also reduce validity. In closed vocabulary text mining, lemmatizing may be useful when applied
to the corpus to increase the coverage of dictionaries, but stemming would need to be applied to both
the corpus and the dictionaries because it does not always return actual words. Using stemming/
lemmatizing can help increase the coverage of closed vocabulary dictionaries, yet if this introduces
errors or conflates distinct words, doing so will reduce the precision and validity of closed voca-
bulary text mining.
Text Mining
Preprocessing is the first stage of text mining. Once preprocessing decisions are made and imple-
mented, features (i.e., variables) are extracted from the text using closed vocabulary text mining,
open vocabulary text mining, or both. Then, those features are used as the units of analysis.
Feature Extraction. As described previously, two primary approaches exist for extracting features
from natural language text: closed and open vocabulary text mining. In closed vocabulary text
mining, dictionaries are used to count words relevant to linguistic and/or psychological constructs.
After deciding which dictionaries to include, closed vocabulary text mining software counts the
number of times each entry in a dictionary occurs. Either the raw counts or the proportion of text
matching each dictionary can be used for subsequent analyses. At the end of this process, each text in
the corpus is represented by a vector of weights, where entries represent scores for the focal
dictionaries. Closed vocabulary text mining has been used extensively in organizational research
(see our second review).
In open vocabulary text mining, after the corpus has been preprocessed, n-grams are extracted from
text using a tokenizer. Tokenization is the process of identifying the units of analysis (i.e., n-grams),
counting them in each document, and creating the document-term matrix (where each row is a
document, each column is an n-gram, and each entry is the number of times the n-gram occurs in a
given document). Tokenizers process a corpus by extracting all phrases of n consecutive words and
counting their frequency in each document. Special tokenizers have been developed specifically to
capture emoticons because more general tokenizers do not have rules in place for handling consecutive
punctuation/symbols (Kern et al., 2016). Some researchers only extract unigrams from the text, yet
unigrams are devoid of context and, therefore, could lead to spurious associations that do not hold up
under scrutiny. Therefore, researchers should use tokenizers to count unigrams, bigrams, and often
trigrams (i.e., n ¼ 1, 2, and 3), but the added value of including longer phrases is diminished due to
their sparseness. Extracting phrases helps improve validity by capturing some semantic information in
the text. For example, when analyzing free-form employee survey responses, the unigram challenging
125
Hickman et al.


is relatively uninformative, yet comparing the frequency of challenging relationship and challenging
project could help one identify whether employees are struggling with interpersonal or task-related
issues and whether these challenges differ by functional area.
The resulting document-term matrix can be used as is, or further transformations can be made on
this matrix, such as using the term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) transformation,
which gives greater weight to less frequent n-grams (Spa¨rck Jones, 1972), or generating topic
models, for example, with the popular Latent Dirichlet Allocation (Blei et al., 2003). Topic models
use techniques similar to factor analysis to identify the latent topics in a corpus and assign each
document a “loading” that indicates the extent each extracted topic is present in that document.
Importantly, one may not want to (a) remove stop words when extracting n-grams with n > 1 or (b)
stem or lemmatize when generating topic models (Banks et al., 2018). Removing stop words in bi-
and trigrams can create nonsensical phrases and reduce validity, and topic modeling can account for
different forms of the same word, so there is less of a need to collapse different forms of a word
together via stemming/lemmatizing. Although extracting n-grams is a necessary precursor to topic
modeling, as Figure 1 shows, the optimal preprocessing techniques differ depending on which
features (i.e., n-grams vs. topic models) one ultimately plans to use in subsequent analyses.
Analysis. After extracting features from text, the features are generally used downstream in one of
three broad classes of analysis: visualization, clustering, and prediction. Visualization is a form of
data analysis that can provide a succinct summary of high-dimensional data (Tay et al., 2018).
Traditionally, researchers used visualization to highlight findings that support hypotheses, yet
increasingly, modern visualization tools allow for interactive data visualization that can help
researchers uncover new insights in the data. In text mining, word clouds are frequently used to
summarize the frequency and/or predictive value of n-grams and closed vocabulary dictionaries
(e.g., Schwartz, Eichstaedt, Kern, et al., 2013).
Clustering (i.e., unsupervised machine learning) is a class of inductive methods that group
documents by their textual features, with no outcome variable driving the agglomeration. Examples
include hierarchical clustering methods (e.g., McLaughlin et al., 1991; Woo et al., 2018) and
partitioning clustering, such as k-means clustering (MacQueen, 1967). For example, Kobayashi
et al. (2018b) showed how hierarchical clustering could be used on textual features to inspect the
similarities among job descriptions in online job boards, generating information that could be
valuable for job analysis.
Prediction (i.e., classification, or supervised machine learning; MacQueen, 1967) is a deductive
method used to predict outcomes of interest from a given text. Indeed, prediction is perhaps the
prototypical application of open vocabulary text mining, wherein predictive model parameters are
estimated on a training data set and validated on a testing data set. For instance, Campion et al.
(2016) applied text mining to automatically score achievement record essays by modeling the scores
given by human raters, potentially saving the organization time and money by reducing the human
labor required to screen job applicants. Traditional, regression-based hypothesis tests (commonly
used during closed vocabulary text mining) are also a form of prediction, but the models are
generally not cross-validated.
Review of Computational Linguistics Studies Comparing Preprocessing
Techniques
Methods
Research in computational linguistics (CL) has directly compared how different preprocessing
techniques affect text mining performance. To do so, such studies examine how the accuracy of
126
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


machine learning predictions for some task (e.g., text classification, sentiment analysis) is affected
by manipulating preprocessing techniques. We began with a broad search seeking to identify
research focused on comparing the effects of different preprocessing decisions. Later, we expanded
our search to top CL conferences to identify research that compared the effects of preprocessing
decisions even if that was not the primary research focus. We sought research in the past 5 years
using “preprocess*” and “stemm* AND lemmat*” as search terms on IEEE Xplore and ACM
Digital Library. These search terms were chosen because stemming and lemmatization are often
discussed in studies focused on preprocessing even if they do not compare stemming to lemmatiza-
tion. This initial search returned 144 articles. Then, we uncovered 13 additional potentially relevant
articles by inspecting the last 5 years of proceedings of top NLP conferences: the Association for
Computational Linguistics, the Association for Information Science and Technology, Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, and the North American Chapter of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics. We further collected 11 additional articles through ancestral
search. The first author made relevance decisions by examining abstracts and, if determination could
not be made from the abstract, full texts. The second author coded a random sample of 20% (N ¼ 33)
of the potentially relevant articles to determine coding reliability for article inclusion. Agreement
between coders was 97.1%, and the one disagreement was resolved via discussion. We found 50
studies that compared the effects of preprocessing decisions on open vocabulary text mining results
(and found no articles comparing the effects of preprocessing on closed vocabulary text mining), and
the first two authors coded them on four criteria: research context (e.g., information retrieval), text
language(s), preprocessing techniques compared, and which preprocessing techniques gave the best
system performance (e.g., highest classification accuracy). We dropped one of the studies because it
reported contradictory results about the same analyses. When coding the beneficial preprocessing
techniques, disagreements were resolved via discussion.
Results
Full details about each study included in our review are provided in Appendix A in the Supplemental
Material available online. The aggregated results of their preprocessing investigations are summarized
in Table 3 and this section. Table 3 lists each preprocessing technique for which we found comparative
studies, the number of studies investigating each technique, and the languages of the texts used in the
studies and breaks down the results by studies in the English language and studies in all languages.
Some preprocessing techniques appeared very beneficial for machine learning system accuracy,
whereas the effects of others were equivocal. Two of three studies of lowercase conversion found it
improved system accuracy, both of which were studies of English text. For example, Uysal and
Gunal (2014) found that lowercase conversion increased the accuracy of machine learning classifiers
for classifying emails as spam and identifying the category of news stories in both English and
Turkish. Although some of the CL results may not appear directly relevant to organizational
researchers, the effects of lowercase conversion on machine learning classifiers and predictive
models for other tasks (e.g., Kobayashi et al., 2018b) are likely to be consistent. All five studies
of handling negation found it was beneficial. For example, Smith et al. (2015) found that handling
negation increased the accuracy of a computerized question answering system. Five of eight studies
of nonalphabetic character removal found it was beneficial, although just three of six studies of
English text found the same. Three of five studies of emoticon recognition found it was beneficial,
including two of the three studies of English text. All three studies of spelling corrections found it
improved system accuracy. For example, Mhatre et al. (2017) found that spelling corrections
improved the accuracy of machine learning models classifying product reviews as positive or
negative. Five of six studies of expanding contractions and abbreviations found it improved system
accuracy, including three of the four studies of English text. For example, Jiangqiang and Xiaolin
127
Hickman et al.


(2017) found that expanding acronyms improved the accuracy of Twitter sentiment analysis (i.e.,
positive or negative) machine learning models. Eight of 23 studies of stop word removal found it was
beneficial, including five of the 11 studies of English text.
Moving to stemming and lemmatizing, 14 of 24 studies of stemming found it was beneficial,
including six of the 12 studies of English text. Eight of 10 studies of lemmatizing found it was
beneficial, including six of the eight studies of English text. When stemming and lemmatizing were
directly compared, five of eight studies found lemmatizing was beneficial, two of the studies found
stemming was beneficial, and the remaining one found equivocal results. In studies of English text,
lemmatizing was beneficial in three of five studies, one study found stemming was beneficial, and
the remaining one found equivocal results. For example, Mulki et al. (2018) found that lemmatizing
improved the accuracy of emotion classifiers that labeled tweets with the discrete emotion most
present in them.
Discussion of Computational Linguistics Review
Our review of CL research found that several preprocessing techniques are generally beneficial in
terms of improving the validity of the subsequent analyses. Specifically, lowercase conversion,
handling negation, spelling corrections, and expanding contractions and abbreviations tend to
improve system accuracy. Notably, however, the studies of spelling corrections and expanding
contractions and abbreviations did not focus on predicting individual differences. On the other hand,
some techniques, including nonalphabetic character removal, emoticon recognition, stop word
removal, and stemming, are less beneficial. When compared to stemming, lemmatizing provides
better results.
Traditionally, some exploration of different preprocessing techniques is expected due to the
inductive nature of open vocabulary text mining (Banks et al., 2019), and different combinations
of preprocessing techniques can improve the accuracy of later machine learning predictions by
several percentage points. When text mining is used, for example, to predict job performance, such
seemingly minor increases in accuracy can provide considerable long-term utility gains. For
Table 3. Summary of Computational Linguistics Preprocessing Comparison Review.
Preprocessing Technique
k
Non-English Language(s)
English Results
All Results
Lowercase conversion
3
Indonesian, Portuguese, Turkish
2/2
2/3
Handle negation
5
Turkish
4/4
5/5
Nonalphabetic character
removal
8
Portuguese, Turkish
3/6
5/8
Emoticon recognition
5
Arabic, Slovak, Spanish
2/3
3/5
Spelling corrections
3
Portuguese
2/2
3/3
Expand contractions and
abbreviations
6
Arabic, Indonesian
3/4
5/6
Stop word removal
23
Arabic, French, Indonesian, Kurdish,
Russian, Spanish, Turkish
5/11
8/23
Stemming
24
Arabic, Indonesian, Kurdish, Malay,
Portuguese, Turkish
6/12
14/24
Lemmatizing
10
French, German, Russian, Slovak
6/8
8/10
Stemming vs. lemmatizing
8
Arabic, Hungarian, Italian, Portuguese,
Romanian, Serbian, Spanish, Turkish
3/5 lemmatizing
5/8 lemmatizing
Note: k ¼ number of studies uncovered in literature search that tested the effects of each preprocessing technique. English
Results reports the proportion of English-language studies that found the preprocessing technique to be beneficial, and All
Results reports the proportion of studies in all languages that found the preprocessing technique to be beneficial.
128
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


example, Schmidt and Hunter (1998) called incremental validity of .01 beyond general mental
ability a “moderate” improvement (p. 269). Therefore, better text preprocessing can potentially
enhance the utility of organizational text mining applications. Note, however, that it is possible
organizational researchers have explored different preprocessing techniques without reporting it—
for example, Speer (2018) trained a machine learning model to predict job performance ratings from
narrative performance reviews and may have experimented with multiple preprocessing techniques
to identify the combination that provided the highest predictive accuracy. Alternately, if Speer did
not, then it may be possible to improve the predictive accuracy of similar systems in the future by
experimenting with preprocessing techniques. We now turn to compare these findings to existing
text preprocessing practices in organizational research.
Review of Preprocessing in Organizational Research
Method for Review of Organizational Text Mining Research
Given our interest in understanding the preprocessing practices of existing organizational research
that uses text mining, we sought to uncover published, substantive organizational research that
utilized open or closed vocabulary methods. We searched 10 prominent substantive journals in our
field, as is common in organizational research reviews (e.g., Aguinis et al., 2009): Academy of
Management Journal, Administrative Science Quarterly, Journal of Business & Psychology, Jour-
nal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Journal of Management, Journal of
Vocational Behavior, The Leadership Quarterly, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision
Processes, and Personnel Psychology for “text mining” OR “natural language processing” OR
LIWC OR DICTION OR “CAT Scanner” OR “General Inquirer” OR “Premium modeler” OR
“RIOT Scan” OR WordStat. These search terms returned 264 articles. The first author determined
whether text mining was used in each article by reading abstracts and, if determination could not be
made from the abstract, full texts. The second author coded a random sample of 20% (N ¼ 53) of the
potentially relevant articles to determine coding reliability for article inclusion. Agreement between
coders was 98.1%, and the one disagreement was resolved via discussion. Eighty-six articles,
ranging from 1994 to 2019, used text mining and were included in our review. Articles were coded
by the first and second authors by summarizing their text mining methods, data sources, preproces-
sing techniques, the rationale for the preprocessing decisions, analyses conducted, features
extracted, and why text variables were extracted.
Results
Appendix B in the Supplemental Material available online provides full details about each study
included in our review, and Table 4 summarizes the descriptive statistics and aggregate reported
preprocessing practices. Table 4 excludes all preprocessing techniques that were never used by any
organizational researchers (i.e., emoticon recognition, lemmatizing). Table 4 lists the number of
open and closed vocabulary text mining studies our search uncovered, how many of each reported
using at least one preprocessing technique, the number of studies that provided the rationale for their
preprocessing decisions, and the number of studies that used each preprocessing technique.
Nine (10%) of the 86 articles used open vocabulary text mining, first appearing in 2015. Four of
these nine also used closed vocabulary text mining, so 81 (95%) of the articles used closed voca-
bulary text mining. Only three of the 81 (4%) articles using closed vocabulary text mining reported
preprocessing text. One accounted for negation by removing words preceded by no (Bligh & Hess,
2007), one removed nonalphabetical characters and used lowercase conversion (Piezunka et al.,
2019), and one corrected spelling errors and expanded contractions (Lengelle et al., 2013). Only one
of these studies provided a rationale for their preprocessing—Bligh and Hess (2007) stated they
129
Hickman et al.


removed words preceded by no to account for the change in meaning, but they did not explain why
this particular method (i.e., deletion) was chosen. On the other hand, seven of the nine (78%) open
vocabulary studies reported using multiple preprocessing techniques.
For open vocabulary text mining research, Appendix C in the Supplemental Material available
online summarizes the preprocessing techniques used, the rationale provided for the preprocessing
decisions, and the software used. Table 4 summarizes this information by listing how many studies
reported conducting each preprocessing technique. None of the open vocabulary text mining studies
corrected spelling errors, expanded contractions and/or abbreviations, or used lemmatizing. At least
two thirds of the studies used lowercase conversion, stop word removal, and stemming. Less than
half of the nine studies reported engaging in any other preprocessing technique.
Not all studies reported engaging in tokenization. Tokenization identifies the units of analysis
(i.e., phrases of length n, or n-grams) for open vocabulary text mining and, therefore, is a necessary
part of preprocessing (Schmiedel et al., 2019). Therefore, it is possible that these studies simply did
not report it. Additionally, proprietary software (e.g., IBM SPSS Premium Modeler; Campion et al.,
2016) likely tokenizes without user knowledge.
Only Speer (2018) and Speer et al. (2018) reported accounting for negation. To do so, Speer
(2018; Speer et al., 2018) appended negation terms (e.g., not) to the subsequent word as “not_word.”
This approach improves validity by treating negated and nonnegated words distinctly.
Regarding reporting, seven of the nine studies provided some information about the software
used. Two studies (22%), however, did not mention how they conducted open vocabulary text
mining (Giorgi & Weber, 2015; Piezunka et al., 2019). Without knowing what software was used,
researchers are unable to replicate the methodology of a research study. Eighty of the 81 (99%)
closed vocabulary text mining studies reported which software was used.
We also inspected the rationale researchers provided for their text preprocessing decisions. Three
studies did not provide any rationale (Campion et al., 2016; Giorgi & Weber, 2015; Speer et al.,
2018). Three studies cited prior research as justification for some (but not all) preprocessing deci-
sions (Antons et al., 2019; Banks et al., 2019; Speer, 2018). Three studies stated they stemmed
their corpus because stemming is “commonly” conducted (Croidieu & Kim, 2018; Piezunka &
Dahlander, 2015; Piezunka et al., 2019). Two studies claimed to conduct the “standard” text
preprocessing techniques, yet these studies used different preprocessing techniques (Banks
et al., 2019; Croidieu & Kim, 2018).
General Discussion
By conducting two complementary reviews, this article uncovered the best practices in text pre-
processing as determined by computational linguistics as well as the current preprocessing reporting
practices in organizational text mining research. We now integrate the findings of these two reviews
Table 4. Summary of Organizational Research Preprocessing Review.
k
n Reporting
Preprocessing
Rationale
Provided
LC
HN
NAR
PR
SC
ECA
SW
St
Closed vocabulary
81
3 (4%)
1
1
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
Open vocabulary
9
7 (78%)
6
6
2
3
1
0
0
7
6
Note: LC ¼ lowercase conversion; HN ¼ handle negation; NAR ¼ nonalphabetic character removal; PR ¼ punctuation
removal; SC ¼ spelling corrections; ECA ¼ expand contractions and abbreviations; SW ¼ stop word removal; St ¼
stemming. Entries indicate number of studies uncovered in the review that reported conducting each preprocessing
technique.
130
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


with the conceptual considerations reviewed previously to provide a conceptually informed and
empirically grounded set of preprocessing recommendations.
Preprocessing Recommendations
Overall, the emerging organizational research using open vocabulary text mining has relied on
convenient and common preprocessing techniques. In other words, the choice of preprocessing
techniques has rarely been supported by empirical research or theory. Indeed, multiple studies
claimed to conduct stemming because it is “common,” and two claimed to conduct the “standard”
preprocessing techniques yet used different preprocessing techniques. Furthermore, it is very rare for
studies to report preprocessing text for closed vocabulary text mining. We provide research-based
preprocessing recommendations for closed and open vocabulary text mining in Figure 1 and Table 2
and detail them here. However, as noted previously, we recognize that specific situations may
require deviating from these recommendations and that different proprietary software (e.g., LIWC)
may automatically conduct some of the preprocessing techniques.
All text should be converted to lowercase. Lowercase conversion decreases data dimensionality
while maintaining semantic information. Most organizational studies reported using lowercase
conversion with open vocabulary text mining. Likely, studies do not report conducting lowercase
conversion with closed vocabulary text mining because the software packages, like LIWC, conduct
lowercase conversion without user input.
Our first review showed handling negation should be conducted in both closed and open voca-
bulary text mining. Handling negation better accounts for semantic information in text, increasing
data dimensionality and validity. For instance, to accurately assess perceptions of politicians’
Machiavellianism, distinguishing honest from not honest is necessary (e.g., Bhattacharya et al.,
2015). However, only two organizational open vocabulary studies and one closed vocabulary text
mining study reported handling negation.
Then, researchers must consider whether they will be extracting features using open or closed
vocabulary text mining. If only using closed vocabulary text mining, then spelling corrections
should be made and contractions and abbreviations should be expanded (if the dictionary only
contains the expanded version of the contractions and abbreviations). Doing so will ensure that the
relevant words are accurately counted in the focal closed vocabulary dictionaries.
If using open vocabulary text mining, researchers must consider whether their research question
requires them to capture the content and/or style of speech. If only content is important, then spelling
corrections should be made, contractions and abbreviations should be expanded, and nonalphabetic
characters should be removed to reduce data dimensionality and increase statistical power. Unless
idiosyncratic language differences, such as spelling errors, abbreviations, and use of punctuation, are
useful for the research question at hand, researchers should make these corrections to standardize the
language. Doing so can improve the accuracy of open vocabulary text mining. Although not
included in Figure 1, if emoticons are present in one’s corpus, emoticon recognition should be used
regardless of whether one is using closed or open vocabulary text mining. Capitalization and
nonalphabetic characters are both informative for emoticon recognition in open vocabulary text
mining, and in closed vocabulary text mining, one merely needs to include an emoticon dictionary.
When conducting open vocabulary text mining, tokenization involves removing extra white
space because it is superfluous. Then, researchers must next consider the average document length
in their corpus. If documents are long, then stop words should be removed from unigrams. Removing
stop words can be detrimental in short documents (e.g., tweets) because stop words comprise a large
proportion of the total words, and many stop words are function words that comprise one’s com-
munication style, which tends to be a stable individual difference (Pennebaker et al., 2003). For
example, Meinecke and Kauffeld (2018) used LIWC categories that contain stop words to quantify
131
Hickman et al.


supervisor and subordinate language style, which affected performance appraisal effectiveness.
Therefore, consider retaining stop words when relevant to one’s research question or when extract-
ing n-grams with n > 1 because stop words alter the meaning of subsequent words (Schofield et al.,
2017). Park et al.’s (2015) study of Facebook users found stop words were present in several phrases
predictive of personality traits. Stop word removal is unnecessary for closed vocabulary text mining
because the choice of dictionaries determines whether stop words are counted.
Finally, when using open vocabulary text mining, researchers must consider which features will
be extracted from text: n-grams and/or topic models. If only topic models will be used in later
analyses, then preprocessing is complete. However, if n-grams will be directly used, then researchers
must consider their corpus size. If the corpus is small, then researchers should stem or lemmatize the
text. Lemmatizing is superior to stemming because it is less likely to conflate distinct words, thereby
providing greater validity. However, most organizational open vocabulary text mining studies
stemmed their corpus. Topic models can determine the relationships between different forms of the
same word, so there is less of a need to stem or lemmatize when using them (Schofield & Mimno,
2016). Stemming and lemmatizing are most useful in small corpora (Kern et al., 2016) because there
is less power in subsequent analyses to utilize fine distinctions in text. Ideally, lemmatization should
be used on smaller corpora because it has a lower error rate compared to stemming and provides
more interpretable results (Manning et al., 2008). Generally, stemming and lemmatizing are not used
in closed vocabulary text mining, but if they are, they should be applied to both the corpus and the
dictionaries.
Reporting Text Mining for Transparency and Replication
Our review of the CL literature shows that the choices made in the preprocessing stage meaningfully
alter text mining results. Yet, as shown in Table 1, the text mining studies in organizational science
often provide arbitrary and uneven reporting of preprocessing techniques. This gives readers an
incomplete picture of the study methodology and subsequently, the results obtained. Lack of careful
reporting standards for preprocessing can hinder the transparency and replicability of research
methods, especially when the methodology is novel to the area. Special attention needs to be given
to both reproducibility of the original results given the same data and code and, from that, replication
of original conclusions with reanalyzed or new data (Epskamp, 2019). In this section, we highlight
potential pitfalls in conducting and reporting text mining research and summarize recommendations
to improve reproducibility and replicability. We summarize our recommendations in Table 5 and
detail them below.
It is essential for researchers to familiarize themselves with the key aspects necessary for the
reproduction of their text mining research and report them. The first step, therefore, is to report
information about the data set (i.e., the location and retrieval process). Next, researchers should
report exactly which preprocessing techniques were used, the order in which they were conducted,
which were excluded, and why. Because each preprocessing technique has implications for subse-
quent analyses, researchers should understand these ramifications and use them to justify their
choices. For instance, Banks et al. (2018) recommended conducting multiple iterations of prepro-
cessing to identify the optimal set of techniques—if doing so, researchers should report these
procedures (either in the article or supplemental materials) and the benefits of this approach (if
any) for their theory development and empirical investigation. They should also detail what algo-
rithm and tools were used to do the analyses. Then the researchers should describe the features they
extracted and any further analyses done. One of the best ways to ensure replicability would be to post
the source code used to generate all analytic results (Sandve et al., 2013). An increasingly popular
open science practice is to include supplementary materials that include the data (or the data source),
132
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


source code, and a document detailing the analysis plan. This practice allows the analyses to be
exactly replicated, supporting scientific transparency and integrity.
Given that text mining research is software dependent, special attention needs to be given to the
software used to conduct text mining. For each preprocessing technique and analysis, the tools and
software packages used and their version number should be reported. For closed vocabulary text
mining, our review suggests that some preprocessing techniques may be automatically conducted by
the proprietary software—authors should note and report such automatic and intentional application
of preprocessing techniques. Given the extended timeline of research publications, researchers
should consider a version control system that allows for tracking changes in code that may affect
reproduction attempts. For instance, GitHub provides such a version control system (github.com).
Researchers should generally use crystallized software: software that is not in beta version, has been
validated in a methodological study, is well documented, is actively maintained, and ideally, is open-
source code (for further description of crystallized software, see Epskamp, 2019).
Subjective decisions about the analytical choices and interpretations, known as researcher degrees
of freedom (Simmons et al., 2011), are particularly common when the methodology is so new that
detailed aspects of it have yet to be thoroughly investigated. Preprocessing choices alter the results of
text mining analysis, and therefore, researchers should explain why they chose a given set of pre-
processing techniques. Other subjective decisions, such as dropping extracted features, can also affect
the findings and therefore require justification. For example, Kobayashi et al. (2018b) first conducted
their analysis with all stop words retained, then removed all stop words that were not predictive in their
model. If theory suggests stop words are uninformative for a given task, then retaining predictive stop
words may introduce spurious relationships or suppress the relationships other n-grams have to out-
comes. Although seemingly minute, unreported and unjustified subjective decisions can create unre-
producible and biased research findings. Relatedly, researchers should also strive to report results for
all sets of preprocessed data. Although analysis may focus on one set of theoretically grounded results,
researchers should mention how the other preprocessing combinations altered the results. Altered
results present an opportunity: Researchers can generate theory to explain why the results changed
between these preprocessing techniques (or why they did not change). Such practices hold potential for
increasing the theoretical insights that can be derived from text mining.
As a new method in organizational science, there are a number of potential threats to the reprodu-
cibility of text mining research, including researcher degrees of freedom and software dependencies.
Both inductive and deductive research in this area require careful consideration and transparent
reporting of each analytical process used so that the findings can be independently verified.
Table 5. Best Practices for Reporting Text Mining.
Data analysis and reporting
1.
Report the source of data.
2.
Report which specific preprocessing techniques were conducted and which tools/algorithms were used to
accomplish each technique.
3.
Ensure that the software used is crystallized and the code is version controlled and report the version of
software used in the supplemental materials.
4.
Avoid manual data manipulation. Rather, record the code used for data analysis so that it can be
reproduced by other researchers
5.
Provide rationale for each subjective decision made in the analysis, including during preprocessing, feature
extraction, and analysis.
6.
If performing inductive analyses (i.e., multiple iterations of preprocessing and/or feature extraction),
conduct analyses on each set of extracted features and report if and how results changed as a result of
different combinations of preprocessing or feature extraction techniques.
133
Hickman et al.


Limitations and Future Work
A largely untapped opportunity exists for organizational researchers to analyze unstructured data in
theory-driven, computationally advanced ways. Whereas computer scientists apply open vocabulary
text mining to organizational problems in a data-driven way, organizational researchers can pair
these approaches with strong theoretical reasoning, as in much of the closed vocabulary text mining
research and our preprocessing recommendations (Figure 1). Doing so will aid researchers and
practitioners because the insights derived will be grounded in theory, based on thousands of data
points, and cross-validated. We provided guidance to help researchers and practitioners conduct
empirically justified and conceptually driven preprocessing for text mining.
To our knowledge, an area of open vocabulary preprocessing with no evidence-based consensus
is removing sparse or frequent terms. Multiple recommendations have been provided, including
removing terms occurring in less than 1% (Schwartz, Eichstaedt, Kern, et al., 2013) or 5% or
more than 99% (Kobayashi et al., 2018a) of documents. Other practices can be found as well, such
as removing terms that occur in less than 0.1% of documents (Antons et al., 2019) or removing
corpus-specific stop words (Schmiedel et al., 2019). The appropriate answer likely depends on
document length—a lower threshold (e.g., 0.1%) could be used for shorter documents to avoid
increasing data sparsity, whereas higher thresholds (e.g., 5%) could be used for longer documents.
Additionally, the evidence suggests that corpus-specific stop words are unnecessary (e.g., Schofield
et al., 2017). In both cases, the effect of such practices should be empirically assessed.
Our recommendations are limited to existing open vocabulary text mining approaches adopted by
organizational researchers. Emerging CL approaches that utilize neural network topic models (i.e.,
transfer learning—e.g., BERT; Devlin et al., 2018) use both forward and backward context to
represent word meaning. Such approaches can represent multiple meanings of the same word
(i.e., polysemy), including negation (however, cf. Niven & Kao, 2019). Therefore, such approaches
require less preprocessing than recommended here.
Additionally, other textual features can be extracted that require different preprocessing techniques,
but these features have received less attention in organizational research to date. Specifically, features
related to NLP (Pandey & Pandey, 2019) that account for the syntactic structure of the text require the
use of syntactic parsers early in preprocessing. Syntactic parsers identify words’ part of speech as well
as the dependencies among words, enabling researchers to utilize nonadjacent, semantically connected
words as features (e.g., subject-verb-object triples; Franzosi, 2004). More generally, certain parts of
speech are considered vital for understanding language use (Pennebaker et al., 2003), and counting
various parts of speech can provide insight into how language patterns shift depending on contextual
and relational dynamics (e.g., Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012; Yang & Srinivasan, 2016). Future
research should explore these textual features and their implications for organizational behavior.
Existing work utilizing text mining tends to eschew theory in favor of raw statistical power to
increase the understanding we have of our field (Antons et al., 2019) or to automate knowledge work
(Campion et al., 2016). Conversely, Kleinbaum (2012) and Maslach et al. (2018) each provided a
detailed theoretical rationale to form the basis for analyzing and interpreting their textual features.
Theoretical rationale is key for future work in this area because a theoretical understanding of the
research question should guide preprocessing, feature extraction, and analysis. Our recommenda-
tions aim to provide a solid foundation for such research by ensuring that preprocessing decisions are
empirically and theoretically justified, transparent, and replicable, resulting in data and findings that
are psychologically meaningful and defensible.
Declaration of Conflicting Interests
The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or pub-
lication of this article.
134
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


Funding
The author(s) received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
ORCID iD
Louis Hickman
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2752-7705
Supplemental Material
Supplemental material for this article is available online.
Notes
1. Note that although closed and open vocabulary text mining are distinct methodologically, some software,
such as DICTION (Hart, 2000; Short & Palmer, 2008), conduct closed vocabulary text mining, open
vocabulary texts mining, and hybrid methods.
References
*References marked with an asterisk indicate studies included in the reviews.
*Abrahamson, E. (2014). Management fashion: Lifecycles, triggers, and collective learning processes.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 44(4), 708-740.
*Abrahamson, E., & Hambrick, D. C. (1997). Attentional homogeneity in industries: The effect of discretion.
Journal of Organizational Behavior, 18(S1), 513-532.
*Abuaiadah, D. (2016). Using bisect k-means clustering technique in the analysis of Arabic documents. ACM
Transactions on Asian and Low-Resource Language Information Processing, 15(3), 1-13.
Aguinis, H., Pierce, C. A., Bosco, F. A., & Muslin, I. S. (2009). First decade of Organizational Research
Methods: Trends in design, measurement, and data-analysis topics. Organizational Research Methods,
12(1), 69-112.
*Akinola, M., Martin, A. E., & Phillips, K. W. (2018). To delegate or not to delegate: Gender differences in
affective associations and behavioral responses to delegation. Academy of Management Journal, 61(4),
1467-1491. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2016.0662
*Alhaj, Y. A, Wickramaarachchi, W. U., Hussain, A., Al-Qaness, M. A., & Abdelaal, H. M. (2018). Efficient
feature representation based on the effect of words frequency for Arabic documents classification. In
Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Telecommunications and Communication
Engineering (pp. 397-401). Association for Computing Machinery.
*Alnajran, N, Crockett, K., McLean, D., & Latham, A. (2018). A heuristic based pre-processing methodology
for short text similarity measures in microblogs. In 2018 IEEE 20th International Conference on High
Performance Computing and Communications; IEEE 16th International Conference on Smart City; IEEE
4th International Conference on Data Science and Systems (HPCC/SmartCity/DSS) (pp. 1627-1633). IEEE.
*Al-Thubaity, A, & Al-Subaie, A. (2015). Effect of word segmentation on Arabic text classification. In 2015
International Conference on Asian Language Processing (IALP) (pp. 127-131). IEEE.
*Amrami, A, & Goldberg, Y. (2018). Word sense induction with neural biLM and symmetric patterns. In 2018
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (pp. 4860-4867). Association for
Computational Linguistics.
*Antons, D., Joshi, A. M., & Salge, T. O. (2019). Content, contribution, and knowledge consumption:
Uncovering hidden topic structure and rhetorical signals in scientific texts. Journal of Management,
45(7), 3035-3076. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206318774619
APA Publications and Communications Board Working Group on Journal Article Reporting Standards (2008).
Reporting standards for research in psychology: Why do we need them? What might they be? The American
Psychologist, 63(9), 839-851.
135
Hickman et al.


*Arif, S. M., & Mustapha, M. (2017). The effect of noise elimination and stemming in sentiment analysis for
Malay documents. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and
Statistics (iCMS 2015) (pp. 93-102). Springer.
*Ayedh, A., Tan, G., Alwesabi, K., & Rajeh, H. (2016). The effect of preprocessing on Arabic document
categorization. Algorithms, 9(2), 1-27.
*Babapour, S. M., & Roostaee, M. (2017). Web pages classification: An effective approach based on text
mining techniques. In 2017 IEEE 4th International Conference on Knowledge-Based Engineering and
Innovation (KBEI) (pp. 0320-0323). IEEE
*Banks, G. C., Woznyj, H. M., Wesslen, R. S., Frear, K. A., Berka, G., Heggestad, E. D., & Gordon, H. L.
(2019). Strategic recruitment across borders: An investigation of multinational enterprises. Journal of
Management, 45(2), 476-509. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206318764295
Banks, G. C., Woznyj, H. M., Wesslen, R. S., & Ross, R. L. (2018). A review of best practice recommendations
for text analysis in R (and a user-friendly app). Journal of Business and Psychology, 33(4), 445-459. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s10869-017-9528-3
*Bao, Y., Quan, C., Wang, L., & Ren, F. (2014). The role of pre-processing in twitter sentiment analysis. In
International Conference on Intelligent Computing (pp. 615-624). Cham.
*Barlow, M. A., Verhaal, J. C., & Hoskins, J. D. (2018). Guilty by association: product-level category stigma
and audience expectations in the U.S. craft beer industry. Journal of Management, 44(7), 2934-2960. https://
doi.org/10.1177/0149206316657593
*Basu, S., & Savani, K. (2017). Choosing one at a time? Presenting options simultaneously helps people make
more optimal decisions than presenting options sequentially. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision
Processes, 139, 76-91.
*Batanovic´, V, & Nikolic´, B. (2016). Sentiment classification of documents in Serbian: The effects of mor-
phological normalization. In 2016 24th Telecommunications Forum (TELFOR) (pp. 1-4). IEEE.
*Baur, J. E., Parker Ellen, B., Buckley, M. R., Ferris, G. R., Allison, T. H., McKenny, A. F., & Short, J. C.
(2016). More than one way to articulate a vision: A configurations approach to leader charismatic rhetoric
and influence. Leadership Quarterly, 27(1), 156-171. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2015.08.002
*Bednar, M. K. (2012). Watchdog or lapdog? A behavioral view of the media as a corporate governance
mechanism. Academy of Management Journal, 55(1), 131-150.
Bhattacharya, S., Yang, C., Srinivasan, P., & Boynton, B. (2015). Perceptions of presidential candidates’
personalities in twitter. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 67(2),
249-267. https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.23377
Bird, S., Klein, E., & Loper, E. (2009). Natural language processing with Python: Analyzing text with the
natural language toolkit. O’Reilly Media, Inc.
Blei, D. M., Ng, A. Y., & Jordan, M. I. (2003). Latent Dirichlet allocation. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 3, 993-1022. http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume3/blei03a/blei03a.pdf
*Bligh, M. C., & Hess, G. D. (2007). The power of leading subtly: Alan Greenspan, rhetorical leader-
ship, and monetary policy. Leadership Quarterly, 18(2), 87-104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2007.
01.001
*Bligh, M. C., Kohles, J. C., & Meindl, J. R. (2004). Charisma under crisis: Presidential leadership, rhetoric,
and media responses before and after the September 11th terrorist attacks. The Leadership Quarterly, 15(2),
211-239.
*Bligh, M. C., & Robinson, J. L. (2010). Was Gandhi “charismatic”? Exploring the rhetorical leadership of
Mahatma Gandhi. The Leadership Quarterly, 21(5), 844-855.
*Bono, J. E., & Ilies, R. (2006). Charisma, positive emotions and mood contagion. The Leadership Quarterly,
17(4), 317-334.
Boyd, R. (2016). General use: RIOT scan. https://riot.ryanb.cc/general-use/
*Brett, J. M., Olekalns, M., Friedman, R., Goates, N., Anderson, C., & Lisco, C. C. (2007). Sticks and stones:
Language, face, and online dispute resolution. Academy of Management Journal, 50(1), 85-99.
136
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


*Buyl, T., Boone, C., & Wade, J. B. (2019). CEO narcissism, risk-taking, and resilience: An empirical analysis
in US commercial banks. Journal of Management, 45(4), 1372-1400.
*Campion, M. C., Campion, M. A., Campion, E. D., & Reider, M. H. (2016). Initial investigation into computer
scoring of candidate essays for personnel selection. Journal of Applied Psychology, 101(7), 958-975. https://
doi.org/10.1037/apl0000108
*Chatman, J. A., Caldwell, D. F., O’Reilly, C. A., & Doerr, B. (2014). Parsing organizational culture: How the
norm for adaptability influences the relationship between culture consensus and financial performance in
high-technology firms. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 35(6), 785-808.
*Chen, X., & Latham, G. P. (2014). The effect of priming learning vs. performance goals on a complex task.
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 125(2), 88-97. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.
2014.06.004
*Ciobanu, A. M., & Dinu, L. P. (2015). Automatic discrimination between cognates and borrowings. In
Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers) (pp.
431-437). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Cordeiro, S, Ramisch, C., Idiart, M., & Villavicencio, A. (2016). Predicting the compositionality of nominal
compounds: Giving word embeddings a hard time. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) (pp. 1986-1997). Association for
Computational Linguistics.
*Crilly, D., Hansen, M., & Zollo, M. (2016). The grammar of decoupling: A cognitive-linguistic perspective on
firms’ sustainability claims and stakeholders’ interpretation. Academy of Management Journal, 59(2),
705-729.
*Croidieu, G., & Kim, P. H. (2018). Labor of love: Amateurs and lay-expertise legitimation in the early U.S.
radio field. Administrative Science Quarterly, 63(1), 1-42. https://doi.org/10.1177/0001839216686531
Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, C., Lee, L., Pang, B., & Kleinberg, J. (2012). Echoes of power: Language effects and
power differences in social interaction. In International World Wide Web Conference2. http://arxiv.org/abs/
1112.3670
*Davis, K. M., & Gardner, W. L. (2012). Charisma under crisis revisited: Presidential leadership, perceived
leader effectiveness, and contextual influences. The Leadership Quarterly, 23(5), 918-933.
*Deniz, A., & Kiziloz, H. E. (2017). Effects of various preprocessing techniques to Turkish text categorization
using n-gram features. In 2017 International Conference on Computer Science and Engineering (UBMK)
(pp. 655-660). IEEE.
Devlin, J., Chang, M.-W., Lee, K., & Toutanova, K. (2018). BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional trans-
formers for language understanding. ArXiv. http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805
*Djuve, K., & Burris, J. W. (2019). A case study on the dialect identification of twitter tweets using
natural language processing and machine learning. The Journal of Computing Sciences in Colleges,
34(5).
*dos Santos, F. L., & Ladeira, M. (2014). The role of text pre-processing in opinion mining on a social media
language dataset. In 2014 Brazilian Conference on Intelligent Systems (pp. 50-54). IEEE.
*Doucet, L., & Jehn, K. A. (1997). Analyzing harsh words in a sensitive setting: American expatriates in
communist China. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 18(1997), 559-582. https://doi.org/10.2307/3
100265
*Duong, L., Kanayama, H., Ma, T., Bird, S., & Cohn, T. (2016). Learning crosslingual word embeddings
without bilingual corpora. arXiv. https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.09403.
*Duwairi, R., & El-Orfali, M. (2014). A study of the effects of preprocessing strategies on sentiment analysis
for Arabic text. Journal of Information Science, 40(4), 501-513.
*Ebert, S, Mu¨ller, T., & Schu¨tze, H. (2016). Lamb: A good shepherd of morphologically rich languages. In
Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (pp. 742-752).
Association for Computational Linguistics.
137
Hickman et al.


*Ebrahimi, A. M., & Barforoush, A. A. (2019). Preprocessing role in analyzing tweets towards requirement
engineering. In 2019 27th Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE) (pp. 1905-1911). IEEE.
*Engelen, A., Neumann, C., & Schmidt, S. (2016). Should entrepreneurially oriented firms have narcissistic
CEOs? Journal of Management, 42(3), 698-721. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206313495413
Epskamp, S. (2019). Reproducibility and replicability in a fast-paced methodological world. Advances in
Methods and Practices in Psychological Science, 2(2), 145-155. https://doi.org/10.1177/
2515245919847421
*Esmaili, K. S., Salavati, S., & Datta, A. (2014). Towards Kurdish information retrieval. ACM Transactions on
Asian Language Information Processing (TALIP), 13(2), Article 7. https://doi.org/10.1145/2556948
Faguo, Z., Fan, Z., Bingru, Y., & Xingang, Y. (2010). Research on short text classification algorithm based on
statistics and rules. 3rd International Symposium on Electronic Commerce and Security, ISECS 2010, 2, 3-7.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ISECS.2010.9
*Farrar, D., & Hayes, J. H. (2019). A comparison of stemming techniques in tracing. In Proceedings of the 10th
International Workshop on Software and System Traceability (SST’19) at the International Conference on
Software Engineering. IEEE.
Faliagka, E., Tsakalidis, A., & Tzimas, G. (2012). An integrated e-recruitment system for automated person-
ality mining and applicant ranking. Internet Research, 22(5), 551-568. https://doi.org/10.1108/
10662241211271545
Fokkens, A., van Erp, M., Postma, M., Pedersen, T., Vossen, P., & Freire, N. (2013). Offspring from reproduc-
tion problems: What replication failure teaches us. In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (pp. 1691-1701). Association for Computational Linguistics.
Franzosi, R. (2004). From words to numbers: Narrative, data and social science. Cambridge University Press.
*Gamache, D. L., & McNamara, G. (2019). Responding to bad press: How CEO temporal focus influences
the sensitivity to negative media coverage of acquisitions. Academy of Management Journal, 62(3),
918-943.
*Gamache, D. L., McNamara, G., Mannor, M. J., & Johnson, R. E. (2015). Motivated to acquire? The impact of
CEO regulatory focus on firm acquisitions. Academy of Management Journal, 58(4), 1261-1282.
*Gangloff, K. A., Connelly, B. L., & Shook, C. L. (2016). Of scapegoats and signals: Investor reactions to CEO
succession in the aftermath of wrongdoing. Journal of Management, 42(6), 1614-1634.
*Gelfand, M. J., Severance, L., Lee, T., Bruss, C. B., Lun, J., Abdel-Latif, A.-H., Al-Moghazy, A. A, & Ahmed,
S. M. (2015). Culture and getting to yes: The linguistic signature of creative agreements in the United States
and Egypt. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 36(7), 967-989. https://doi.org/10.1002/job
George, G., Osinga, E. C., Lavie, D., & Scott, B. A. (2016). Big data and data science methods for management
research. Academy of Management Journal, 59(5), 1493-1507.
*Gephart, R. (1997). Hazardous measures: An interpretive textual analysis of quantitative sensemaking during
crises. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 18(1), 583-622.
*Giorgi, S., & Weber, K. (2015). Marks of distinction: Framing and audience appreciation in the context of
investment advice. Administrative Science Quarterly, 60(2), 333-367. https://doi.org/10.1177/000183
9215571125
Golbeck, J., Robles, C., Edmondson, M., & Turner, K. (2011). Predicting personality from twitter. In 2011
IEEE International Conference on Privacy, Security, Risk and Trust and IEEE International Conference on
Social Computing, PASSAT/SocialCom 2011 (pp. 149-156). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/PASSAT/
SocialCom.2011.33
*Gomes, S. R, Saroar, S. G., Mosfaiul, M., Telot, A., Khan, B. N., Chakrabarty, A., & Mostakim, M. (2017). A
comparative approach to email classification using Naive Bayes classifier and hidden Markov model. In
2017 4th International Conference on Advances in Electrical Engineering (ICAEE) (pp. 482-487). IEEE.
*Gomulya, D., & Boeker, W. (2014). How firms respond to financial restatement: CEO successors and external
reactions. Academy of Management Journal, 57(6), 1759-1785.
138
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


Gonz´alez-Bail´on, S., & Paltoglou, G. (2015). Signals of public opinion in online communication: A comparison
of methods and data sources. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 659(1),
95-107. https://doi.org/10.1177/0002716215569192
*Graham, Y. (2015). Re-evaluating automatic summarization with BLEU and 192 shades of ROUGE. In
Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (pp.
128-137). Association for Computational Linguistics.
Grimes, S. (2008). Unstructured data and the 80 percent rule. https://breakthroughanalysis.com/2008/08/01/
unstructured-data-and-the-80-percent-rule/
*Guo, W., Yu, T., & Gimeno, J. (2017). Language and competition: Communication vagueness, interpretation
difficulties, and market entry. Academy of Management Journal, 60(6), 2073-2098. https://doi.org/10.5465/
amj.2014.1150
*Hafeez, R, Khan, S., Khan, I. A., & Abbas, M. A. (2017). Does preprocessing really impact automatically
generated taxonomy. In 2017 13th International Conference on Emerging Technologies (ICET) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
*Hagtvedt, L. P., Dossinger, K., Harrison, S. H., & Huang, L. (2019). Curiosity made the cat more creative:
Specific curiosity as a driver of creativity. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 150,
1-13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2018.10.007
Hannigan, T., Haans, R. F. J., Vakili, K., Tchalian, H., Glaser, V. L., Wang, M., Kaplan, S., & Jennings, P. D.
(2019). Topic modeling in management research: Rendering new theory from textual data. Academy of
Management Annals, 13(2), 586-632.
*Hardaya, I. S, Dhini, A., & Surjandari, I. (2017). Application of text mining for classification of community
complaints and proposals. In 2017 3rd International Conference on Science in Information Technology
(ICSITech) (pp. 144-149). IEEE.
*Harmon, D. J. (2019). When the fed speaks: Arguments, emotions, and the microfoundations of institutions.
Administrative Science Quarterly. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1177/0001839218777475
*Harrison, S. H., & Dossinger, K. (2017). Pliable guidance: A multilevel model of curiosity, feedback seeking,
and feedback giving in creative work. Academy of Management Journal, 60(6), 2051-2072. https://doi.org/
10.5465/amj.2015.0247
Hart, R. P. (2000). DICTION 5.0: The text-analysis program. SAGE.
*Haryanto, A. W., & Mawardi, E. K. (2018). Influence of word normalization and chi-squared feature selection
on support vector machine (SVM) text classification. In 2018 International Seminar on Application for
Technology of Information and Communication (pp. 229-233). IEEE.
*Hasanah, U., Astuti, T., Wahyudi, R., Rifai, Z., & Pambudi, R. A. (2018). An experimental study of text
preprocessing techniques for automatic short answer grading in indonesian. In 2018 3rd International
Conference on Information Technology, Information System and Electrical Engineering (ICITISEE) (pp.
230-234). IEEE.
*Helms, W. S., Oliver, C., & Webb, K. (2012). Antecedents of settlement on a new institutional practice:
Negotiation of the ISO 26000 standard on social responsibility. Academy of Management Journal, 55(5),
1120-1145.
*Hidayatullah, A. F. (2015). The influence of stemming on Indonesian tweet sentiment analysis. Proceeding of
the Electrical Engineering Computer Science and Informatics, 2(1), 127-132.
*Hubbard, T. D., Pollock, T., Pfarrer, M., & Rindova, V. P. (2018). Safe bets or hot hands? How status and
celebrity influence strategic alliance formations by newly-public firms. Academy of Management Journal,
61(5), 1976-1999.
*_Is¸gu¨der-S¸ahin, G. G., Zafer, H. R., & Adah, E. (2014). Polarity detection of Turkish comments on technology
companies. In 2014 International Conference on Asian Language Processing (IALP) (pp. 136-139). IEEE.
*Jianqiang, Z., & Xiaolin, G. (2017). Comparison research on text pre-processing methods on twitter sentiment
analysis. IEEE Access, 5, 2870-2879.
Jonsen, K., Fendt, J., & Point, S. (2018). Convincing qualitative research: What constitutes persuasive writing?
Organizational Research Methods, 21(1), 30-67. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428117706533
139
Hickman et al.


*Kabanoff, B., & Holt, J. (1996). Changes in the espoused values of Australian organizations 1986–1990.
Journal of Organizational Behavior, 17(3), 201-219.
*Kabanoff, B., Waldersee, R., & Cohen, M. (1995). Espoused values and organizational change themes.
Academy of Management Journal, 38(4), 1075-1104. https://doi.org/10.2307/256621
*Kanze, D., Huang, L., Conley, M. A., & Higgins, E. T. (2018). We ask men to win and women not to lose:
Closing the gender gap in startup funding. Academy of Management Journal, 61(2), 586-614.
*Kazemian, S., Zhao, S., & Penn, G. (2016). Evaluating sentiment analysis in the context of securities trading.
In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers) (pp. 2094-2103). Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kern, M. L., Eichstaedt, J. C., Schwartz, H. A., Dziurzynski, L., Ungar, L. H., Stillwell, D. J., Kosinski, M.,
Ramones, S. M., & Seligman, M. E. P. (2014). The online social self: An open vocabulary approach to
personality. Assessment, 21(2), 158-169. https://doi.org/10.1177/1073191113514104
Kern, M. L., McCarthy, P. X., Chakrabarty, D., & Rizoiu, M. A. (2019). Social media-predicted personality
traits and values can help match people to their ideal jobs. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America, 116(52), 26459-26464. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.
1917942116
Kern, M. L., Park, G., Eichstaedt, J. C., Schwartz, H. A., Sap, M., Smith, L. K., & Ungar, L. H. (2016). Gaining
insights from social media language. Psychological Methods, 21(4), 507-525. https://doi.org/10.1037/
met0000091
Khalid, O., & Srinivasan, P. (2020). Style matters! Investigating linguistic style in online communities. In
Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Web and Social media (ICWSM). The AAAI Press.
*Khodak, M., Saunshi, N., Liang, Y., Ma, T., Stewart, B., & Arora, S. (2018). A la carte embedding: Cheap but
effective induction of semantic feature vectors. arXiv. arXiv:1805.05388
Kleinbaum, A. M. (2012). Organizational misfits and the origins of brokerage in intrafirm networks.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 57(3), 407-452. https://doi.org/10.1177/0001839212461141
Kobayashi, V. B., Mol, S. T., Berkers, H. A., Kismih´ok, G., & Den Hartog, D. N. (2018a). Text classification
for organizational researchers: A tutorial. Organizational Research Methods, 21(3), 766-799. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1094428117719322
Kobayashi, V. B., Mol, S. T., Berkers, H. A., Kismih´ok, G., & Den Hartog, D. N. (2018b). Text mining in
organizational research. Organizational Research Methods, 21(3), 733-765. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428117722619
*Ko¨nig, A., Mammen, J., Luger, J., Fehn, A., & Enders, A. (2018). Silver bullet or ricochet? CEOs’ use of
metaphorical communication and infomediaries’ evaluations. Academy of Management Journal, 61(4),
1196-1230. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2016.0626
*Krchnavy, R., & Simko, M. (2017). Sentiment analysis of social network posts in slovak language. In 2017
12th International Workshop on Semantic and Social Media 8Adaptation and Personalization (SMAP) (pp.
20-25). IEEE.
*Lengelle, R., Meijers, F., Poell, R., & Post, M. (2013). The effects of creative, expressive, and reflective
writing on career learning: An explorative study. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 83(3), 419-427. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2013.06.014
*Lengelle, R., Meijers, F., Poell, R., & Post, M. (2014). Career writing: Creative, expressive and reflective
approaches to narrative identity formation in students in higher education. Journal of Vocational Behavior,
85(1), 75-84.
*Levy, O. (2005). The influence of top management team attention patterns on global strategic posture of firms.
Journal of Organizational Behavior, 26(7), 797-819.
Li, M. (2019). Addressing the biases plaguing algorithms. https://hbr.org/2019/05/addressing-the-biases-pla
guing-algorithms
140
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


Li, M., Jakhetiya, V., Guntuku, S. C., & Ungar, L. H. (2019). Exploring (dis-)similarities in emoji-emotion
association on twitter and Weibo. The Web Conference 2019 - Companion of the World Wide Web
Conference, WWW 2019, 461-467. https://doi.org/10.1145/3308560.3316546
*Liang, L. H., Lian, H., Brown, D. J., Lance Ferris, D., Hanig, S., & Keeping, L. M. (2016). Why are abusive
supervisors abusive? A dual-system self-control model. Academy of Management Journal, 59(4),
1385-1406. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2014.0651
*Love, E. G., Lim, J., & Bednar, M. K. (2017). The face of the firm: The influence of CEOs on corporate
reputation. Academy of Management Journal, 60(4), 1462-1481.
MacQueen, J. B. (1967). Some methods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations. In L. M. Le
Cam & J. Neyman (Eds.), Proceedings of 5th Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and
Probability (pp. 281-297). University of California Press.
*Madera, J. M., & Smith, D. B. (2009). The effects of leader negative emotions on evaluations of leadership in a
crisis situation: The role of anger and sadness. Leadership Quarterly, 20(2), 103-114. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.leaqua.2009.01.007
*Malhotra, S., Reus, T. H., Zhu, P., & Roelofsen, E. M. (2018). The acquisitive nature of extraverted CEOs.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 63(2), 370-408.
Manning, C. D., Raghavan, P., & Schu¨tze, H. (2008). Introduction to information retrieval. Cambridge
University Press.
*Martin, A. E., & Phillips, K. W. (2017). What “blindness” to gender differences helps women see and do:
Implications for confidence, agency, and action in male-dominated environments. Organizational Behavior
and Human Decision Processes, 142, 28-44.
*Martin, S. R. (2016). Stories about values and valuable stories: A field experiment of the power of narratives to
shape newcomers’ actions. Academy of Management Journal, 59(5), 1707-1724.
Maslach, D., Branzei, O., Rerup, C., & Zbaracki, M. J. (2018). Noise as signal in learning from rare events.
Organization Science, 29(2), 225-246. https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2017.1179
*McKenny, A. F., Aguinis, H., Short, J. C., & Anglin, A. H. (2018). What doesn’t get measured does exist:
Improving the accuracy of computer-aided text analysis. Journal of Management, 44(7), 2909-2933.
McLaughlin, M. E., Carnevale, P., & Lim, R. G. (1991). Professional mediators’ judgments of mediation
tactics: Multidimensional scaling and cluster analyses. Journal of Applied Psychology, 76(3), 465-472.
Meade, A. W., & Craig, S. B. (2012). Identifying careless responses in survey data. Psychological Methods,
17(3), 437-455.
*Meinecke, A. L., & Kauffeld, S. (2019). Engaging the hearts and minds of followers: Leader empathy and
language style matching during appraisal interviews. Journal of Business and Psychology, 34, 485-501.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-018-9554-9
*Mhatre, M., Phondekar, D., Kadam, P., Chawathe, A., & Ghag, K. (2017). Dimensionality reduction for
sentiment analysis using pre-processing techniques. In 2017 International Conference on Computing
Methodologies and Communication (ICCMC) (pp. 16-21). IEEE.
*Mihaylov, T., & Nakov, P. (2016). Hunting for troll comments in news community forums. In Proceedings of
the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers) (pp.
399-405). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Milajevs, D., Kartsaklis, D., Sadrzadeh, M., & Purver, M. (2014). Evaluating neural word representations in
tensor-based compositional settings. In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (pp. 708-719). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Moore, C., Lee, S. Y., Kim, K., & Cable, D. M. (2017). The advantage of being oneself: The role of applicant
self-verification in organizational hiring decisions. Journal of Applied Psychology, 102(11), 1493-1513.
https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000223
*Morris, R. (1994). Computerized content analysis in management research. Journal of Management, 20(4),
903-931.
141
Hickman et al.


*Mulki, H., Ali, C. B., Haddad, H., & Babaoglu, I. (2018). Tw-star at semeval-2018 task 1: Preprocessing
impact on multi-label emotion classification. In Proceedings of The 12th International Workshop on
Semantic Evaluation (pp. 167-171). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Murphy, S. E., & Ensher, E. A. (2008). A qualitative analysis of charismatic leadership in creative teams: The
case of television directors. The Leadership Quarterly, 19(3), 335-352.
*Nadkarni, S., & Chen, J. (2014). Bridging yesterday, today, and tomorrow: CEO temporal focus, environ-
mental dynamism, and rate of new product introduction. Academy of Management Journal, 57(6),
1810-1833. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2011.0401
*Nadkarni, S., Pan, L., & Chen, T. (2018). Only timeline will tell: Temporal framing of competitive announce-
ments and rivals’ responses. Academy of Management Journal, 62(1), 117-143.
Niven, T., & Kao, H. Y. (2019). Probing neural network comprehension of natural language arguments. arXiv.
arXiv:1907.07355
*O’Reilly, C. A., Doerr, B., & Chatman, J. A. (2018). “See you in court”: How CEO narcissism increases firms’
vulnerability to lawsuits. Leadership Quarterly, 29(3), 365-378. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2017.08.001
*O’Reilly, C. A., Doerr, B., Caldwell, D. F., & Chatman, J. A. (2014). Narcissistic CEOs and executive
compensation. Leadership Quarterly, 25(2), 218-231. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2013.08.002
*Olsen, A. Ø., Sofka, W., & Grimpe, C. (2016). Coordinated exploration for grand challenges: The role of
advocacy groups in search consortia. Academy of Management Journal, 59(6), 2232-2255.
Oswald, F. L., Behrend, T. S., Putka, D. J., & Sinar, E. (2020). Big data in industrial-organizational psychology
and human resource management: Forward progress for organizational research and practice. Annual
Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 7(1). https://doi.org/10.1146/
annurev-orgpsych-032117-104553
*Palmer, I., Kabanoff, B., & Dunford, R. (1997). Managerial accounts of downsizing. Journal of
Organizational Behavior, 18(1997), 623-639. https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-1379(199711)18:
1þ<623::AID-JOB909>3.0.CO;2-T
*Palrecha, R., Spangler, W. D., & Yammarino, F. J. (2012). A comparative study of three leadership approaches
in India. Leadership Quarterly, 23(1), 146-162. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2011.11.012
Pandey, S., & Pandey, S. K. (2019). Applying natural language processing capabilities in computerized textual
analysis to measure organizational culture. Organizational Research Methods, 22(3), 765-797. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1094428117745648
Park, G., Schwartz, H. A., Eichstaedt, J. C., Kern, M. L., Kosinski, M., Stillwell, D. J., Ungar, L. H., &
Seligman, M. E. P. (2015). Automatic personality assessment through social media language. Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology, 108(6), 934-952. https://doi.org/10.1037/pspp0000020
Pennebaker, J. W., Booth, R. J., Boyd, R. L., & Francis, M. E. (2015). Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count:
LIWC 2015 operator’s manual. University of Texas at Austin.
Pennebaker, J. W., Boyd, R. L., Jordan, K., & Blackburn, K. (2015). The development and psychometric
properties of LIWC2015. University of Texas at Austin.
Pennebaker, J. W., Mehl, M. R., & Niederhoffer, K. G. (2003). Psychological aspects of natural language use:
Our words, our selves. Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 54,
547-577. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.54.101601.145041
*Piezunka, H., & Dahlander, L. (2015). Distant search, narrow attention: How crowding alters organizations’
filtering of suggestions in crowdsourcing. Academy of Management Journal, 58(3), 856-880. https://doi.org/
10.5465/amj.2012.0458
*Piezunka, H., & Dahlander, L. (2019). Idea rejected, tie formed: Organizations’ feedback on crowdsourced
ideas. Academy of Management Journal, 62(2), 503-530. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2016.0703
Pollach, I. (2012). Taming textual data: The contribution of corpus linguistics to computer-aided text analysis.
Organizational Research Methods, 15(2), 263-287. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428111417451
*Porac, J. F., Wade, J. B., & Pollock, T. G. (1999). Industry categories and the politics of the comparable firm in
CEO compensation. Administrative Science Quarterly, 44(1), 112-144. https://doi.org/10.2307/2667033
142
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


Porter, M. F. (1980). An algorithm for suffix stripping. Program, 14(3), 130-137.
*Quigley, T. J., Hubbard, T. D., Ward, A., & Graffin, S. D. (2020). Unintended consequences: Information
releases and CEO stock option grants. Academy of Management Journal, 63(1), 155-180.
*Rhee, E. Y., & Fiss, P. C. (2014). Framing controversial actions: Regulatory focus, source credibility, and
stock market reaction to poison pill adoption. Academy of Management Journal, 57(6), 1734-1758.
*Ridge, J. W., & Ingram, A. (2017). Modesty in the top management team: Investor reaction and performance
implications. Journal of Management, 43(4), 1283-1306. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206314551796
*Roy, A., Ghorai, T., Ghosh, K., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Combining local and global word embeddings for
microblog stemming. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Conference on Information and Knowledge
Management (pp. 2267-2270). Association for Computing Machinery.
Sajjadiani, S., Sojourner, A. J., Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D., & Mykerezi, E. (2019). Using machine learning to
translate applicant work history into predictors of performance and turnover. Journal of Applied Psychology,
104(10), 1207-1225. https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000405
Sandve, G. K., Nekrutenko, A., Taylor, J., & Hovig, E. (2013). Ten simple rules for reproducible computational
research. PLoS Computational Biology, 9(10), Article e1003285. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003
285
*Savani, K., & King, D. (2015). Perceiving outcomes as determined by external forces: The role of event
construal in attenuating the outcome bias. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 130,
136-146.
Schmidt, F. L., & Hunter, J. E. (1998). The validity and utility of selection methods in personnel psychology:
Practical and theoretical implications of 85 years of research findings. Psychological Bulletin, 124(2),
262-274.
Schmiedel, T., Mu¨ller, O., & vom Brocke, J. (2019). Topic modeling as a strategy of inquiry in organizational
research: A tutorial with an application example on organizational culture. Organizational Research
Methods, 22(4), 941-968. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428118773858
*Schofield, A., Magnusson, M., & Mimno, D. (2017). Pulling out the stops: Rethinking stopword removal for
topic models. In 15th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Volume 2, Short Papers (pp. 432-436). Association for Computational Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/
v1/e17-2069
*Schofield, A., & Mimno, D. (2016). Comparing apples to apple: The effects of stemmers on topic models.
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4, 287-300. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_
00099
Schwartz, H. A., Eichstaedt, J., Blanco, E., Dziurzynski, L., Kern, M., Ramones, S., Seligman, M., & Ungar,
L. (2013). Choosing the right words: Characterizing and reducing error of the word count approach. In
Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics, Volume 1: Proceedings of the Main
Conference and the Shared Task: Semantic Textual Similarity (pp. 296-305). Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Schwartz, H. A., Eichstaedt, J. C., Kern, M. L., Dziurzynski, L., Ramones, S. M., Agrawal, M., Shah, A.,
Kosinski, M., Stillwell, D., Seligman, M. E. P., & Ungar, L. H. (2013). Personality, gender, and age in the
language of social media: The open-vocabulary approach. PLoS ONE, 8(9), Article e73791. https://doi.org/
10.1371/journal.pone.0073791
*Seyranian, V., & Bligh, M. C. (2008). Presidential charismatic leadership: Exploring the rhetoric of social
change. The Leadership Quarterly, 19(1), 54-76.
*Shantz, A., & Latham, G. P. (2009). An exploratory field experiment of the effect of subconscious and
conscious goals on employee performance. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes,
109(1), 9-17. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2009.01.001
*Shi, W., Zhang, Y., & Hoskisson, R. E. (2019). Examination of CEO-CFO social interaction through language
style matching: Outcomes for the CFO and the organization. Academy of Management Journal, 62(2),
383-414.
143
Hickman et al.


Short, J. C., Broberg, J. C., Cogliser, C. C., & Brigham, K. H. (2010). Construct validation using computer-
aided text analysis (CATA). Organizational Research Methods, 13(2), 320-347. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428109335949
Short, J. C., & Palmer, T. B. (2008). The application of DICTION to content analysis research in strategic
management. Organizational Research Methods, 11(4), 727-752.
Simmons, J. P., Nelson, L. D., & Simonsohn, U. (2011). False-positive psychology: Undisclosed flexibility in
data collection and analysis allows presenting anything as significant. Psychological Science, 22(11),
1359-1366. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797611417632
*Smith, E., Greco, N., Bosnjak, M., & Vlachos, A. (2015). A strong lexical matching method for the machine
comprehension test. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing (pp. 1693-1698). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Spangler, W. D., Gupta, A., Kim, D. H., & Nazarian, S. (2012). Developing and validating historiometric
measures of leader individual differences by computerized content analysis of documents. The Leadership
Quarterly, 23(6), 1152-1172.
Spa¨rck Jones, K. (1972). A statistical interpretation of term specificity and its application in retrieval. The
Journal of Documentation, 28, 11-21. http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/eb026526
*Speer, A. B. (2018). Quantifying with words: An investigation of the validity of narrative-derived perfor-
mance scores. Personnel Psychology, 71(3), 299-333. https://doi.org/10.1111/peps.12263
*Speer, A. B., Schwendeman, M. G., Reich, C. C., Tenbrink, A. P., & Siver, S. R. (2019). Investigating the
construct validity of performance comments: Creation of the great eight narrative dictionary. Journal of
Business and Psychology, 34, 747-767. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-018-9599-9
*Spell, C. S., & Blum, T. C. (2005). Adoption of workplace substance abuse prevention programs: Strategic
choice and institutional perspectives. Academy of Management Journal, 48(6), 1125-1142.
*Stab, C., & Gurevych, I. (2014). Identifying argumentative discourse structures in persuasive essays. In
Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)
(pp. 46-56). Association for Computational Linguistics.
*Suadaa, L. H., & Purwarianti, A. (2016). Combination of latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) and term frequency-
inverse cluster frequency (TFxICF) in Indonesian text clustering with labeling. In 2016 4th International
Conference on Information and Communication Technology (ICoICT) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
*Sulaiman, S., Omar, K., Omar, N., Murah, M. Z., & Rahman, H. A. (2014). The effectiveness of a Jawi
stemmer for retrieving relevant Malay documents in Jawi characters. ACM Transactions on Asian Language
Information Processing, 13(2), Article 6. https://doi.org/10.1145/2540988
*Sun, F., Belatreche, A., Coleman, S., McGinnity, T. M., & Li, Y. (2014). Pre-processing online financial text
for sentiment classification: A natural language processing approach. In 2014 IEEE Conference on
Computational Intelligence for Financial Engineering & Economics (CIFEr) (pp. 122-129). IEEE.
Tausczik, Y. R., & Pennebaker, J. W. (2010). The psychological meaning of words: LIWC and computerized
text analysis methods. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 29(1), 24-54. https://doi.org/10.1177/
0261927X09351676
Tay, L., Ng, V., Malik, A., Zhang, J., Chae, J., Ebert, D. S., Ding, Y., Zhao, J., & Kern, M. (2018). Big data
visualizations in organizational science. Organizational Research Methods, 21(3), 660-688. https://doi.org/
10.1177/1094428117720014
*Titus, V. K., Jr., Parker, O., & Bass, A. E. (2018). Ripping off the band-aid: Scrutiny bundling in the wake of
social disapproval. Academy of Management Journal, 61(2), 637-660.
*Titus, V., House, J. M., & Covin, J. G. (2017). The influence of exploration on external corporate venturing
activity. Journal of Management, 43(5), 1609-1630. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206314562426
*Uysal, A. K., & Gunal, S. (2014). The impact of preprocessing on text classification. Information Processing
& Management, 50(1), 104-112.
144
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


*van Dijke, M., Wildschut, T., Leunissen, J. M., & Sedikides, C. (2015). Nostalgia buffers the negative impact
of low procedural justice on cooperation. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 127,
15-29.
van Halteren, H., Baayen, H., Tweedie, F., Haverkort, M., & Neijt, A. (2005). New machine learning
methods demonstrate the existence of a human stylome. Journal of Quantitative Linguistics, 12(1),
65-77.
*Wade, J. B., Porac, J. F., & Pollock, T. G. (1997). Worth, words, and the justification of executive pay. Journal
of Organizational Behavior, 18(S1), 641-664. https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-1379(199711)18:
1þ<641::AID-JOB910>3.0.CO;2-M
*Walker, D. D., van Jaarsveld, D. D., & Skarlicki, D. P. (2017). Sticks and stones can break my bones but words
can also hurt me: The relationship between customer verbal aggression and employee incivility. Journal of
Applied Psychology, 102(2), 163-179. https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000170
*Wang, T., Wezel, F. C., & Forgues, B. (2016). Protecting market identity: When and how do organizations
respond to consumers’ devaluations? Academy of Management Journal, 59(1), 135-162.
Wanous, J. P., Sullivan, S. E., & Malinak, J. (1989). The role of judgment calls in. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 74(2), 259-264.
*Wasike, B. (2017). Charismatic rhetoric, integrative complexity and the US presidency: An analysis of the
State of the Union Address (SOTU) from George Washington to Barack Obama. The Leadership Quarterly,
28(6), 812-826.
*Waung, M., McAuslan, P., DiMambro, J. M., & Mi˛egoc´, N. (2017). Impression management use in resumes
and cover letters. Journal of Business and Psychology, 32(6), 727-746.
*Weiss, M., Kolbe, M., Grote, G., Spahn, D. R., & Grande, B. (2018). We can do it! Inclusive leader language
promotes voice behavior in multi-professional teams. The Leadership Quarterly, 29(3), 389-402.
Woo, S. E., Jebb, A. T., Tay, L., & Parrigon, S. (2018). Putting the “person” in the center: Review and synthesis
of person-centered approaches and methods in organizational science. Organizational Research Methods,
21(4), 814-845. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428117752467
Yang, C., & Srinivasan, P. (2016). Life satisfaction and the pursuit of happiness on twitter. PLoS ONE, 11(3),
Article e0150881. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0150881
*Zavyalova, A., Pfarrer, M. D., & Reger, R. K. (2010). Managing the message: The effects of firm actions and
industry spillovers on media coverage. Academy of Management Journal, 55(5), 1079-1101. https://doi.org/
10.5465/amj.2010.0608
*Zeroual, I., & Lakhouaja, A. (2017). Arabic information retrieval: Stemming or lemmatization? In 2017
Intelligent Systems and Computer Vision (ISCV) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
*Zeroual, I., Boudchiche, M., Mazroui, A., & Lakhouaja, A. (2017). Developing and performance evaluation of
a new Arabic heavy/light stemmer. In Proceedings of the 2nd international Conference on Big Data, Cloud
and Applications (Article 17). Association for Computational Linguistics.
Author Biographies
Louis Hickman is a PhD candidate in Industrial-Organizational Psychology at Purdue University, and holds his
MS in Computer and Information Technology specializing in natural language processing. His research focuses
on the application of modern analytic methods, including machine learning and affective computing, to advance
psychological measurement and pre-employment assessment. His proposed dissertation, Algorithmic Cognitive
Ability Prediction in Video Interviews, was awarded a Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)
Foundation Dissertation Grant.
Stuti Thapa is a PhD candidate in Industrial-Organizational Psychology at Purdue University. Her current
research interests include emotion dynamics, well-being, statistical analyses, research methods and cross-
cultural research.
145
Hickman et al.


Louis Tay is the William C. Byham associate professor in Industrial-Organizational Psychology at Purdue
University. His research interests are in well-being, vocational interests, measurement, taxonometrics, latent
class modeling, and data science. His lab website is www.wam-lab.com. He is the founder of ExpiWell
(www.expiwell.com) a technology startup enabling researchers to conduct better experience sampling
studies.
Mengyang Cao is a people research manager at Facebook, Inc. His research focuses on the assessment of
individual differences, including personality, vocational interest, and emotional intelligence. He also conducted
research on the application of measurement models to address issues in personnel selection (e.g., candidate
faking).
Padmini Srinivasan is a professor in Computer Science at the University of Iowa. She joined the University as
an assistant professor in 1989. Prior to that she was an assistant professor at George Mason University. She
received her doctorate from the School of Information Studies, Syracuse University in 1985. Her expertise is in
text retrieval and text mining. Current research includes investigations of: linguistic style across communities
and collections; user privacy and security in the context of social media posts and other writings; detecting/
mitigating bias in text classifiers.
146
Organizational Research Methods 25(1)


